                                    Whole Life Insurance 90
                   with life insurance. Life insurance binders are called temporary insurance agreements. The insurer can
                               policy is permanent insurance, the cash values can be used to help pay the deferred compensation
                                  A. Term life insurance
               A. Term life insurance
                                    A. Variable life insurance                               C. retirement
                                    B. Term life insurance                                   D. social security
                                     This unit explores the basic policies—term, whole life, and universal life—as well as popular hybrids.
                          ӽ describe characteristics of whole life insurance, the types of policies, the advantages, and the
                   Term life insurance is the simplest type of life insurance. Term life insurance policies only offer a death
                   The renewability feature, with term life insurance, guarantees that the policy will renew (extend) at the
                                                                                                       • Term life insurance
                                    Term Life Insurance                                                         • No new application
                                                                                                             permanent insurance
        4.5          WHOLE LIFE INSURANCE
                     4.5.1 Characteristics of Whole Life Insurance
                     Whole Life is a permanent insurance policy which is guaranteed to remain in force for the insured’s
                     entire lifetime (“whole life”) provided the required premiums are paid, or to the policy maturity date.
                     In contrast to term insurance, which becomes unaffordable or unobtainable at older ages, whole life
                     insurance is designed to remain in force for the whole life of the insured and the premiums will never
                     The purpose of a level premium with whole life policies is to make lifetime coverage affordable at
                     whole life policy never increases from its original amount even if the insured lives to a very old age.
                     Like its premium, the death benefit of a whole life policy is fixed and level. For as long as the policy is
                     Cash values are an integral part of a whole life policy, and reflect the reserves necessary to assure
                               The “cash surrender” value of the whole life policy arises from the policyholder’s rights to quit the
                               The whole life policy death benefit is payable upon the insured’s death. The death benefit consists of
                               Whole life policies mature or endows at some point in the future. A whole life policy usually endows
                                                                                         Traditional Whole Life
                          Traditional Whole Life                                           • Fixed & level death benefit
                   4.5.2 Types of Whole Life Policies
                   4.5.2.1 Continuous Premium Whole Life
                   The premiums for this whole life policy are the same each year for the duration of the contract. It is
                   4.5.2.2 Limited-Payment Whole Life
                   Limited-payment whole life policies allow for a lifetime of premiums to be paid in a shorter period of
                   time. Common forms of limited payment whole life are:
                           ■ 10-pay or 20-pay whole life; the premiums are payable in 10 or 20 level annual installments, and
                   whole life policies, coverage is for the insured’s entire life.
                   This illustration compares the cash value accumulation of a limited payment whole life policy (policy
                   B) to a continuous premium whole life policy (policy A). Both policies have a $50,000 face amount.
                                Comparison of Whole Life and Limited Pay Life
                               4.5.2.3 Single Premium Whole Life
                               A single premium whole life policy has one payment made at the time of purchase. The amount of this
                               4.5.2.4 Modified Premium Whole Life
                               Modified premium whole life policies, sometimes called modified whole life policies, have lower
                               premiums during the first three to five years. Compared to a continuous premium whole life policy, in
                               those early years, modified whole life policies have a lower cost similar to term insurance. However,
                               policy, making them higher in cost than a continuous premium whole life policy.
                               Graded premium whole life policies have an even lower initial premium than modified whole life
                               policies. The graded premium starts out lower than other types of whole life policies and increases
                               An indeterminate premium whole life policy is similar to a nonparticipating whole life policy except
                               4.5.2.7 Interest-Sensitive or Current Assumption Whole Life
                               Interest-sensitive whole life, also known as current assumption whole life is a type of whole life
                               With interest sensitive whole life, the insurer will make investments with a percentage of each premium
                                                                                        Types of Whole Life Policies
                          Types of Whole Life Policies                                    • Limited payment
                                                                                               whole life policies
                   4.5.3 Advantages and Disadvantages of Whole Life Insurance
                   Whole life insurance is permanent coverage with guaranteed level premiums and it does not expire
                   after a specified term. Cash values in whole life insurance policies accumulate tax deferred. By law
                   Because the policy is providing lifetime coverage, the initial premium for whole life is higher than term
                   insurance. Unlike other types of permanent insurance, whole life premiums cannot be decreased and
                                    Whole Life Insurance                                               Whole Life Insurance
                                           1. Whole life insurance is often referred to as
                                              A. permanent insurance
                                           2. Which whole life policy allows for a lifetime of premiums to be paid in a shorter period of
                                              A. Continuous premium whole life
                                                   B. Limited-pay whole life
                                                   C. Single premium whole life
                                                   D. Modified premium whole life
                                           3. The death benefit of a whole life policy is
                   term and whole life coverage in one policy. The amount of premium that the policyowner can afford is
                   benefit, the policy would now accumulate cash value like whole life insurance, assuming no reduction
                   whole life policy.
                   4.6.2.2 Universal Life
                   Universal life (UL) was designed for people who want flexible premiums and flexible coverage over
                   the course of their lifetime. UL premiums are flexible, not fixed, like whole life. Premiums paid into a
                   universal life policy accumulate as interest in the policy’s cash value. Monthly interest credited to the
                   surrender or “cash in” the universal life contract for its current cash value whenever he or she wishes.
                                                Option A—Universal Life Level Death Benefit
                                           Option B—Universal Life Increasing Death Benefit
                               Both whole life and universal life allow policy loans from the cash value. However, only universal life
                               4.6.2.3 Equity-Indexed Universal Life Insurance
                               Equity-indexed universal life is a permanent life insurance policy that allows policyholders to
                               universal life typically contains a minimum guaranteed interest rate component along with the indexed
                               account option. Indexed policies give policyholders the security of fixed universal life insurance with
                                                                                          • Universal life
                                                                                          • Equity indexed universal life
                   Adjustable life combines the guarantees of whole life insurance with the affordable premiums of term
                   insurance in one policy. The policyowner is allowed to adjust the mix of whole life and term based on his
                   Universal life’s flexible premium means that policyowners can skip premiums without losing their coverage
                                     Unlike whole life or term insurance, these policies are more complex. It is important the policyowner
                                                     A. Flexible polices are temporary insurance
                                                          C. A universal life insurance policy is cash-value driven rather than premium-driven
                                     Variable policies are permanent insurance policies designed to provide lifetime coverage for the
                                     insurer’s general assets. This account is established to hold variable annuity and variable life insurance
                   4.7.2.1 Variable Life
                   Variable life insurance has a separate account instead of guaranteed cash value. It’s also called variable
                   whole life or fixed-premium variable life.
                   Variable universal life policies have two death benefit options like the universal life policy. Death
                   The death benefit of a variable life policy will increase with positive investment results however in the
                   amount is the variable life policy guaranteed minimum death benefit.
                   This illustrates the variable life death benefit.
                                        Variable Life Insurance Death Benefit
                                4.7.2.2 Variable Universal Life
                                Variable life is whole life with a separate account. Variable universal life is universal life with a separate
                                account. Variable universal life is also called flexible premium variable life.
                                Variable universal life is a type of permanent life insurance, because the death benefit will be paid if the
                                Variable universal life policies have two death benefit options like the UL policy. Option 1 remains level
                                   •Variable life                                                        • Investments are in the separate
                                   •Variable universal life                                                  • Owner can lose money
                                                                                                             • Variable life
                                                                                                             • Variable universal life
                                                                           Whole Life                                            Life
                                         2. All of the following statements regarding variable life insurance are true EXCEPT
                                            A. variable life’s cash values will go up and down based on performance of the separate account
                                            B. variable universal life does not have a guaranteed minimum death benefit
                                            C. agents who sell variable life must be licensed to sell insurance by the state and also
                                            D. most variable life policies offer a guarantee of a minimum return
                                         – Can be changed to permanent insurance
                   Traditional Whole Life
