                   U N I T    1 5	   Disability Income Insurance              317
                                      Individual Disability Income Insurance     322
                                      Group Disability Income Insurance        333
                                      Business Disability Insurance 334
                                       Business Disability Insurance 461
                        15—Disability Income Insurance                                                           X
                   compensation insurance, disability insurance, and medical insurance for the needy. Local governments
                            cost of insurance, disability income rider, and the payor benefit rider;
                                5.4.2 Disability Income Rider
                                The disability income rider provides the insured with a monthly benefit check if they become disabled.
                          Disability Income Rider
                                                                                     Disability Income Rider
                                                                                                             • Disability income rider
                                         C. Disability income rider
                                      ■ Disability income rider
               C. Disability income rider                                  B. Accidental death and disability rider
               D. Payor rider                                              C. Disability income rider
               C. Disability income rider
        2.    C. Kumar has a disability income rider because
                                illness, Hospital income (indemnity) insurance, credit disability insurance, blanket coverage,
                                          ■ Disability income insurance pays a stated amount of income to the insured when an accident or
                                            pays doctor and hospital bills, disability income insurance provides money to pay other bills.
                                            Disability income insurance is frequently referred to as income replacement or loss-of-time
                                    A. Disability income insurance
                                12.7.4 Credit Disability Insurance
                                credit disability insurance to secure the loan. If the consumer (debtor) becomes disabled, the policy’s
               A. a disability income policy                               D. insureds are given certificates of insurance
                                     B. disability income insurance                            D. workers compensation
                                                                      9.   B. Disability income insurance is also called
                                      ■ Accident only or disability income insurance
                   periodic payments such as disability income, payments must be made at least monthly.
                                           If an insured’s total disability income benefit exceeds the greater of the insured’s earnings at the
               UNIT             15                                Disability Income
                                    This unit discusses disability income insurance, a product that provides supplementary income in the
                          ӽ identify individual disability income insurance and the benefits, elimination period, benefit
                          ӽ explain the coordination of disability insurance with Government benefits: Additional monthly
                          ӽ describe group disability income insurance and the know the difference between group and
                          ӽ explain short term disability and long-term disability;
                          ӽ identify business disability insurance including key person, business overhead expense policy,
                          ӽ explain workers’ compensation and its relationship to disability insurance.
                                                                                                     Unit 15   Disability Income Insurance        319
                                                                                                 Unit 15   Disability Income Insurance        321
                                   A. Disability income insurance
        15.4 INDIVIDUAL DISABILITY INCOME INSURANCE
                   When an individual qualifies for benefits, disability income plans pay a monthly amount to make up
                   15.4.1.2 Elimination Period
                   The elimination period or waiting period is the time period an insured must be disabled before
                   benefits begin. The elimination period may be thought of as a kind of deductible – a time deductible
                   rather than a dollar deductible. The elimination period keeps the insurance company from paying
                   claims for short term or temporary disabilities. When the elimination period is satisfied, benefits begin
                   Elimination periods may be 30, 60, 90, or 180 days or longer, depending on the time period selected.
                   A longer elimination period would reduce the insurance premium, and make the disability income
                                                                                                   Unit 15   Disability Income Insurance        323
                                                                                                     • Elimination period
                                     • Elimination period /                                              • Must be disabled for this
                   Because workers’ compensation covers on-the-job injuries and illnesses, some disability income
                                                                                                      Unit 15   Disability Income Insurance        325
                                injuries. Most disability income insurance covers both job-related and non-job-related disabilities. Such
                                      Most disability insurance covers                                Occupational—both job related and
                   considered still disabled from the original disability and is not subject to a new elimination period.
                   Judy has a disability income insurance policy with a 90 day recurrent provision. She is disabled by
                   other than back pain, she would have had to wait until the elimination period had passed to begin
                                                                                                       Unit 15   Disability Income Insurance        327
                                                    B. elimination period
                     The future increase option (FIO) rider allows insureds to buy additional amounts of disability income
                                                                                                    Unit 15   Disability Income Insurance        329
                                When attached to a disability income insurance policy, the benefit is usually expressed as a multiple of
                                                                                                   Unit 15   Disability Income Insurance        331
                                                                                                  disability income policies are
                                 1. Which of the following allows insureds to buy additional amounts of disability income
                                 2. All of the following are common exclusions found in disability income policies EXCEPT for
                   The insured’s occupation is the most important factor in underwriting disability income insurance. Less
                                                                                                        Unit 15   Disability Income Insurance        333
                                15.5 GROUP DISABILITY INCOME INSURANCE
                                    different types of coverage based on the benefit period: short-term disability (STD) and long-term
                                    15.5.2 Short-Term Disability (STD)
                                    Short-term disability policies have short elimination periods—sometimes just a few days or perhaps no
                                    elimination period at all. The benefit period is normally 6 to 24 months. Benefit amounts are generally
                   15.5.3 Long-Term Disability (LTD)
                   Long-term disability plans are designed to begin paying a benefit when the short-term disability benefit
                   ends. The elimination period of the long-term plan is usually the same as the benefit period of the
                                                                                          elimination period if any
        15.6 BUSINESS DISABILITY INSURANCE
                   15.6.1 Key Person Disability Insurance
                   Key person disability income insurance pays a monthly benefit to a business to cover expenses for
                   in a lump sum or in monthly installments. Generally, the policy’s elimination period will be 30 to 90
                   Generally, Business Overhead Expense policies have elimination periods of 15 or 30 days and benefit
                                                                                                          Unit 15   Disability Income Insurance        335
                                    Disability income insurance can be used to fund an agreement to buy out the interest of a business owner
                                    interest. The disability insurance policy then provides the funds needed to execute the agreement.
                                    One of the critical considerations in a disability buyout is the elimination period. At the end of the
                                    elimination period, the disability policy’s funds become available and the buyout plan is put into effect.
                                    sell his or her business interest for a short-term disability. For this reason, the elimination period for
                                                                                                           Unit 15   Disability Income Insurance        337
                                            1. Which of the following is the most important factor in underwriting disability income
                                            2. All of the following statements about short-term disability are true EXCEPT
                                               A. short-term disability policies have short elimination periods
                                                    B. short-term disability policies have long elimination periods
                                                    C. short-term disability benefits are normally six to 24 months
                                                    D. short-term disability benefit amounts are generally 60% to 70% of the employee’s
