                                    Long-Term Care Rider 122
                   U N I T    2 1	   Long-Term Care          437
                                      Medicare, Medicaid, and Long-Term Care 438
                                      Qualified Long-Term Care Insurance Plans 447
                                      State Long-Term Care Partnership Programs 448
                                      Individual vs. Group LTC Contracts      449
                        21—Long-Term Care                                                                        X
                                             ■ long-term care due to the inability to perform a number of the activities of daily living;
                                             ■ being admitted to hospice or permanent confinement in a nursing home; or
                                                                                                       in a nursing home due
        5.8        LONG-TERM CARE RIDER
                   There are two approaches to the LTC rider concept. The independent approach recognizes the LTC
                   life policy’s face amount or cash value. The integrated approach links the LTC benefits paid to the life
                   policy’s face amount and/or cash value. Similar to the accelerated benefits rider, the LTC rider may be
                   used to pay for qualified services such as home care, assisted living, or nursing home care.
                   The long-term care rider may offer benefits consistent with the benefits offered by a stand-alone long-
                   insurance benefit—while they are still living to help pay for long-term care expenses.
                          Long-Term Care Rider                                           Long Term Care Rider
                                                                                             living, and nursing home care
                                         – Permanent confinement in a nursing home due to a chronic illness or catastrophic injury
                                         – Nursing home
                                         – Nursing/assisted living care
                                         – Assisted living
                                         – Nursing home care
               automobile accident. How much will the policy               confined to a nursing home or cannot perform
               D. $400,000                                                 D. Long-term care rider
                                organ transplants, permanent confinement to nursing homes, and long-term care (if activities of daily
                                           – Permanently confined to a nursing home
                 24 months or permanence in a nursing home
                                income insurance, dental expense insurance, and long-term care (LTC) insurance;
                     exclusions are still allowed for disability policies, long-term care insurance, Medicare supplements, and
                                          ■ Long-term care (LTC) insurance provides coverage for medical and non-medical care for
                                                                                                                   • Long-term care—medical and
                                         B. Long-term care insurance
                                     ■ Long-term care—medical and non-medical expenses
               C. a long-term care policy
                                     D. long-term care (LTC) insurance
        1.    B. Long-term care insurance
                                                    – Long-term care insurance
                                exclusions are still allowed for disability policies, long-term care insurance, Medicare supplements, and
                   The most common health insurance free-look period is 10 days. However, long-term care insurance
                                     • 30 days LTC & Medicare                                            Supplements, Long Term Care)
                          ■ home health care services,
                                                                                • Home health care services
                                      ■ home health care,
                          ■ Home health care services
                          ■ home health care,
                          ■ long-term care, and
                                                    – Home health care is provided by agencies that employ a staff of nurses that make visits to a
                                                                                          • Home health care
                                            B. home health care
                                  – Home health care
               D. Home health care
                            inpatient hospital coverage, skilled nursing facility, home health care, and hospice care;
                                      ■ Part A covers hospital, skilled nursing facility, hospice, and home health care.
                                20.3.2.4 Home Health Care
                                If a patient is confined at home, Medicare Part A’s home health care benefit covers:
                                The home health care benefit does not pay for:
                          Home Health Care
                                                  C. Home health care
                     physician services, home health care (if not covered by Part A), and outpatient medical services and
                                    and custodial care in a nursing home. Medicaid is also required by law to pay Medicare premiums,
               UNIT             21                                Long-Term Care
                                    Long-term care insurance is usually purchased as a means to pay for some or all of the services that can
                                    Long-term care and health care focus on sometimes overlapping issues: health care provides ways to
                                    improve a person’s health, while long-term care provides services based on the condition as it stands
                                    currently. While the average life span has increased to 84 years, so have the costs for nursing homes,
                                    assisted living, skilled care, and other care associated with the aging process. Assisted living facilities
                                    depending on the type of facility and care needed. Premiums for long-term care insurance can be
                                    In this unit, you will learn about the structure of the long-term care policy, how and why it is carefully
                          ӽ explain the purpose of long-term care (LTC) insurance;
                          ӽ identify Medicare’s and Medicaid’s LTC insurance coverage, and LTC insurance coverage;
                          ӽ explain who is eligible for LTC insurance and benefit triggers such as activities of daily living and
                          ӽ describe the different care levels covered under LTC policies;
                          ӽ identify the policy provisions of LTC insurance including benefit periods, benefit amount,
                          ӽ list the exclusions in LTC policies;
                          ӽ describe qualified LTC insurance plans;
                          ӽ identify the state LTC Partnership programs;
                          ӽ describe underwriting considerations for LTC insurance; and
                          ӽ identify regulation of LTC policies including marketing standards, and minimum benefit
