                                      Basic Annuity Concepts 190
                                      Annuity Products        201
                                     insurer’s general assets. This account is established to hold variable annuity and variable life insurance
                                The life income option is similar to an annuity; the policy beneficiary will be guaranteed to receive an
                                The beneficiary can select to receive the entire annuity payout until they die or share it with another
                                The choices for the annuity are life only option, life with period certain, life with refund, or joint and
               B. refund annuity option
                                     B. refund annuity option                                 D. A full share of expense loading is usually
                                                                      8.   B. Thomas has selected a refund annuity
                                      An annuity is a financial product sold by financial institutions like insurance companies. This unit
                                      discusses the different types of annuity contracts, the unique provisions, and the tax implications of the
                                      distributions made to annuitants.
                          ӽ explain the purpose of an annuity;
                          ӽ identify the parties involved in an annuity contract: owner, annuitant, and beneficiary;
                            annuity;
                          ӽ explain the four factors used to determine the amount of a life annuity payout: annuitant’s age,
                          ӽ describe the four types of annuity products: fixed, variable, equity indexed, and market value
        9.3        BASIC ANNUITY CONCEPTS
                   occurs. The insurance company that issues an annuity also makes a promise but, in this case, it is to an
                   annuity contract owner. The promise is that if the contract is annuitized, it will pay an income to the
                   annuitant, regardless of how long they live. Life insurance protects people from dying too soon, while
                   An annuity contract has two phases; “Pay-In” and “Pay-Out.”
                   9.3.1 Annuity Phases
                   An annuity can have two phases or periods. The “Pay-In” phase called the accumulation period when
                                An annuity cannot be used for both phases at the same time and once the contract is annuitized, no
                                The Accumulation Period is when an annuity is being funded, before a payout begins. Life insurance
                                companies issue these contracts and the money paid into the annuity is called a premium.
                                      ■ surrender the annuity for its cash value; and
                                                                                                   • Annuity value belongs to owner
                                When the annuitization period starts, the accumulated value no longer belongs to the annuity owner:
                                      ■ the annuity cannot be surrendered; and
                   9.3.2 Parties Involved in the Annuity Contract
                   There are four parties involved in an annuity contract:
                           ■ annuitant,
                   The contract owner is the person or the couple who buy the annuity and has certain rights. The contract
                           ■ name or change the annuitant;
                   9.3.2.2 Annuitant
                   The annuitant (insured) is similar to the insured in a life insurance policy. They are chosen by the
                   owner to receive the income payments during the annuitization period. The annuitant’s life expectancy
                   is used to determine the amount of the guaranteed payments. The annuitant must be an individual—a
                   The annuitant does not have the power to make withdrawals, deposits, change the names of the parties
                   to the agreement, or terminate the contract. They must also sign the annuity contract.
                   The contract owner and the annuitant are frequently the same person.
                                The beneficiary has no voice in the control or management of the annuity and only benefits upon
                                The insurer is the party who issues the annuity contract. Representing the insurer may be a local bank,
                                                                                                      Parties to an Annuity
                                      Parties to an Annuity                                                 • Names the annuitant
                                                                                                        • Annuitant (insured)
                                                                                                              payments if annuitant
                   annuity to a beneficiary, they will have to pay taxes on any growth (interest) on the money that was put
                   An immediate annuity is structured to provide current income and a deferred contract’s payout is a
                   After paying a lump-sum premium, an immediate annuity or single premium immediate annuity
                   A single premium immediate annuity (SPIA) pays a monthly income immediately. The first payment
                                     Immediate Annuity
                                                                                                Immediate Annuity
                                deferred annuities, the annuity owner chooses the premium amount and the frequency of premium
                                Lastly, the deferred annuity owner is not required to annuitize the contract.
                                Deferred annuities can be purchased with a single premium [single premium deferred annuity
                                     Deferred Annuity
                                                                                                Deferred Annuity
                   A withdrawal from an annuity is taxed different than annuitized payments. When a withdrawal is taken
                   from an annuity, the earnings, or the growth portion, is taxed as ordinary income. Funds continue
                   amount. For example, if you purchased a $20,000 annuity and it has grown to $45,000, the first $25,000
                   In order for the annuitant to avoid additional fees from the insurance company for early withdrawal,
                   For example, a $10,000 annuity contract has a schedule of surrender charges beginning with 7% in the
                   The deferred annuity death benefit does not provide a surviving family a life insurance policy. Rather,
                   the accumulated contract value is paid to a selected beneficiary if the annuity owner dies during the
                           ■ the accumulated value of the annuity; or
                                      1. The period during which a person receives the annuity benefits is called the
                                              C. annuity return period
                                      2. Under which annuity do the benefit payments begin within 12 months of the purchase?
                                         A. An immediate annuity
                                              B. A deferred annuity
                                              C. A retirement annuity
                                              D. An accumulated annuity
                   Annuity payout options are similar to life insurance settlement options. They fall into two categories:
                           ■ life annuities, which have a payment that is guaranteed to last for at least as long as the annuitant
                   Under the life only option, sometimes called a pure life income, payments stop when the annuitant
                   no other contingencies and only the annuitant’s life expectancy was considered to determine the amount
                   The disadvantage of this selection is that the annuitant may die before their life expectancy and the total
                   The life only annuity payout option is also referred to as:
                   Under the Life with Refund option, if the annuitant dies and the total payments received are less than the
                   amount paid for the annuity, the difference is paid to the beneficiary. The money may be paid either as a:
                           ■ continuation of payments in the same amount as was being paid to the annuitant, called an
                                The life with period certain option also pays an income for as long as the annuitant is alive. In
                                addition, the annuitant selects a payment period, typically 5, 10, or 20 years, and payments are
                                guaranteed to be made for at least that number of years. If the annuitant dies before the end of the
                                are made to the beneficiary if the annuitants lives past the period certain.
                                                                                                       • Annuity will pay beneficiary
                                                                                                         if annuitant dies within that
                                of two annuitants dies. For example, if the two annuitants were a married couple and the husband died
                          Annuitants paid even after one                               Joint Life and Survivor
                   The joint life annuity option pays income until the death of the first of two or more annuitants. While
                   the monthly payment is greater than other joint annuities, it is not considered suitable as a joint annuity
                          Two annuitants paid until one
                                                                                           annuitants dies.
                   9.5.1.6 Factors in Determining a Life Annuity Payment Amount
                   Several factors are used to determine the payout of an annuity.
                           ■ Annuitant’s age Age is used to determine life expectancy, which indicates how long payments
                             will have to be made. The younger the annuitant, the lower the payment amount.
