                                    Policy Dividends 138
                                    Nonforfeiture Options 140
                     the stockholders as dividends. The policies issued by stock insurers are called non-participating, or
                                                                                                           taxable dividend from the profits
                               policyowners as policy dividends. Mutual policy dividends are considered to be a non-taxable return
                                                                                                           nontaxable dividend
                                 ■ If the company makes money, a taxable dividend from the profits may be paid to the stockholders/
                                 ■ If the company is profitable, can return excess premium to its policyholders—nontaxable dividend
                                May pay dividends to policyowner                         Does not pay dividends
                               4.5.1.7 Policy Loans
                               Life insurance policies with a cash surrender value usually have loan provisions (policy loan) that allow
                               If a policy loan has not been paid back and the insured dies, the amount borrowed plus any interest
                               Both whole life and universal life allow policy loans from the cash value. However, only universal life
                               policy loan, withdrawals do not require repayment.
                                is participating, dividends continue to be paid.
                                      benefit on the policy’s cash value, accumulation account, death benefit, premium, policy loans and
                                      policies may pay dividends to a policyowner.
                                      This unit focuses on “living benefits,” how can the cash value and/or dividends be used during the
                          ӽ describe the insureds access to cash values through policy loans, withdrawals, and partial
                          ӽ explain policy dividends and the six dividend options: cash, reduced premium, accumulation at
                          ӽ identify the three nonforfeiture options: cash surrender, reduced paid up insurance, and extended
                   dividends to a policyowner. The policyowner can choose how to use these “living benefits.”
                                      6.5.1 Policy Loans
                                      surrender their policy, they can access the cash value that is available using the policy loan provision.
                                      The main advantages of a policy loan over other loans is that there is no credit check; the interest rate
                   When the policy loan and the accumulated interest exceed the cash value of the policy, it lapses.
                   premium by the end of the grace period, then the insurer will pay the premium with a policy loan and
        6.6        POLICY DIVIDENDS
                   6.6.1 Source of Policy Dividends
                   Life insurance policies that pay policy dividends are referred to as participating policies. Life policies
                   that do not pay policy dividends are referred to as nonparticipating policies. Policy dividends are a
                   refund of a portion of the premium. Dividends are based on the difference between the gross premium
                   charged and the actual experience of the insurer. Dividends are not guaranteed. Because policy
                   dividends are a return of premium, they are not taxable.
                                6.6.2 Dividend Options
                                Use the acronym CARPPO to remember the dividend options:
                                The insurer can send a check to the policyowner in the amount of the dividend.
                                The dividend can be left with the insurer to earn interest in a savings account. The dividend is not
                                The dividend can be applied and reduce the next premium due.
                                The paid-up additions option uses each annual dividend to purchase an additional amount of life
                                addition builds its own cash value and also earns dividends. The cash value build-up is tax-deferred
                                Dividends plus interest on dividends are applied to the annual premium and are enough to pay the
                                have to pay premiums out-of-pocket. Since dividends are not guaranteed, a producer cannot tell a
                                The dividend may be used to buy one-year term insurance equal to the policy’s cash value.
                                     Dividend Options                                              Dividend Options—“CARPPO”
                                            R            Dividends are                                • Paid Up additions at attained age
        6.7        NONFORFEITURE OPTIONS
                   The nonforfeiture clause in an insurance policy allows for the insured to receive all or a portion of the
                   There are three nonforfeiture options:
                            policyowner fails to select one of the nonforfeiture options when premium payments cease, this
                                            A. The dividends are used to purchase additional insurance protection
                                         2. All of the following statements about policy dividends are true EXCEPT
                                            A. the insurer can send a check to the policyowner in the amount of the dividend
                                                 B. the dividend can be applied against the next premium due, reducing its amount
                                                 C. dividends can be guaranteed to be paid every year
                                                 D. a dividend can be left with the insurer in a savings account to earn interest
                                            A. nonforfeiture options
                                                 B. dividend options
                                Dividend Options—CARPPO
        1.    A. The dividends are used to purchase                   10. C. The reduced paid-up amount is simply the
        2.    C. dividends can be guaranteed to be paid every
        3.    A. nonforfeiture options
                                      grace period, suicide and incontestability clause, policy loans, and others that enhance or limit a policy
                                  entire contract, modifications, consideration, payment of premium, grace period, reinstatement,
                                      ■ receive or borrow any cash values and/or dividends that have accumulated;
                                                                                        • Receive policy dividends
                   7.4.9 Grace Period
                   time before the coverage actually lapses. This is the policy’s grace period and lasts for a period of up to
                                If the insured dies during the grace period, the policy will pay the death benefit minus the amount of
                                      Grace Period
                                                                                                       Grace Period
                                7.4.10 Reinstatement
                                Reinstatement is the restoration of a lapsed policy as originally purchased. Permanent life policies
                                permit reinstatement in nearly all cases. The insured will receive the protection of the original policy, if
                                       ■ submits an application for reinstatement within three years of lapse;
                                                                                                       Reinstatement
                                      Reinstatement
                   information given on the reinstatement application, not the information given when the policy was
                                                                                                 • Grace period
                                                                                                 • Reinstatement
                                              C. Policy loan clause
                          ■ Receive policy dividends if a participating policy
                                Grace period
                                Reinstatement
                             ■ Grace period
                             ■ Reinstatement
                B. Nonforfeiture period                                      D. Structured annuities
                             full surrenders, withdrawals or partial surrenders, policy loans, dividends, death benefits, and
                     10.3.1.5 Policy Loans
                     Cash value of a life insurance policy is used as collateral for a policy loan. Policy loans reduce the cash
                     exceeds the policy’s cost basis. The amount of any outstanding policy loan is not taxable when the
                     The interest paid on policy loans is not tax-deductible.
                              •Policy loans can be repaid                                 Cash Value Loans
                     10.3.1.6 Dividends
                     Dividends are not taxable. For tax purposes, dividends are considered to be a return of a portion of the
                     when they are returned in the form of dividends. However, as a return of premium, dividends also
                     While dividends are not taxable, if they are left to accumulate at interest, the interest is taxable.
                                      Dividends
                                      premium.                                                      Dividends
                                    A. policy loans are not taxable
