                               gives the advantage to the policyowner, insured, or beneficiary.
                             the beneficiary.
                             beneficiary (in the case of death).
                                                D. The beneficiary
                          ■ Beneficiary
                                             D. Beneficiary
                     policy, with the investors named as the beneficiary.
                     insured names the investor as beneficiary of the policy.
                     because the investor as a beneficiary does not have insurable interest in the insured and it has become a
                               2.   D. The beneficiary                                       disability claims and medical treatments
                                     the beneficiary. If the senior vice president quits working for the company in six months and premiums
                                     are paid to keep the policy in force, the company remains the beneficiary because the only requirement
                   the buyer of the business is the beneficiary. The amount of the death benefit is the purchase price of the
                               The business owns, pays for, and is the beneficiary of the policy on the key person’s life. If the key
                               policy’s living benefits, and at death the proceeds are paid to the beneficiary named by the employee.
                               gross income. When the employee dies, the beneficiary named in the policy receives the death proceeds
                               immediately to the employee’s surviving spouse or other beneficiary. Companies often buy a life
                                    ■ the company is owner, premium payer, and beneficiary; and
                                                                           C. Beneficiary
                                dies, the beneficiary receives the face value of the policy. Cash values continue to build, and if the policy
                                                                                                    to beneficiary upon death of the
                                      different person. This rider is typically used when a business owns the policy and is also the beneficiary
                                      policy’s death benefit would be paid to the named beneficiary.
                             beneficiary. If the policy amount is for $100,000, the benefit will be $100,000. If the policyholder does
                                     ■ Reduces death benefit payable to beneficiary upon death of the insured
                                      insured’s lifetime, and “settlement options,” what choices are available to a beneficiary upon the death of
                   the proceeds will be distributed to the beneficiary(s).
                   stated amount of interest on the money. The interest is paid to the beneficiary at regular intervals.
                                Pays interest to the beneficiary at regular intervals
                                       Interest paid to beneficiary at
                                The fixed period option will pay both an amount of principal and interest to the beneficiary over a
                                certain stated period of time. Should the policy’s primary beneficiary die before all of the proceeds are
                                paid out, the remainder of the money will be paid to the contingent beneficiary that was named in the
                   until both the principal and interest have been completely paid to the beneficiary. The recipient of the
                   increase the length of the payment period, not the size of the payment amount. If the beneficiary dies
                   paid into the beneficiary’s estate.
                                            paid to beneficiary.
                                The life income option is similar to an annuity; the policy beneficiary will be guaranteed to receive an
                                depends on the policy death benefit and the life expectancy of the beneficiary; their age and gender.
                                The beneficiary can select to receive the entire annuity payout until they die or share it with another
                                The life only or straight life option will pay the largest amount to the beneficiary for as long as they live,
                                                          beneficiary’s life expectancy
                                                                                                      beneficiary
                                                       Time                         Death of beneficiary
                                        of life.                                                   • based upon beneficiary’s life
                                                                                                     beneficiary
                   Life with period certain also pays an income for as long as the beneficiary is alive. However, the
                   beneficiary selects a payment period, typically 5, 10, or 20 years can be chosen, and payments are
                   guaranteed to be made for at least that number of years. If the beneficiary dies before the end of the
                                                                                beneficiary’s life expectancy
                                                                                                        Death of beneficiary End of period certain
                                                       Beneficiary chooses                                                             Life Income—Period Certain
                                                     frequency of payments.                                                               • Life income to beneficiary
                                The life with refund settlement option pays an income for as long as the beneficiary is alive, but also
                                guarantees total payments will be at least the amount of the death benefit. If the beneficiary dies before
                                                                                   beneficiary’s life expectancy
                                                                Beneficiary died after 8 payments and the $20,000 balance is paid to someone else.
                           Guaranteed to total at least the death                                     • Pays beneficiary an income for
                          benefit. If beneficiary dies, balance paid                                    life
                                                                                                           death benefit if beneficiary
                   beneficiary lives. This option is often used when a married couple will be receiving the payments.
                   After the death of the first beneficiary, the same or a reduced payment amount is paid to the survivor.
                   Selecting a reduced payment for the second beneficiary will allow a larger payment while both
                                                                                                            beneficiary dies
                                                           Death of 1st beneficiary   Death of 2nd
                                              married couple is beneficiary                                           • The survivor receive the same
                                                   1. Which settlement option pays only the earnings on the death benefit to a beneficiary?
                                    ■ Income to beneficiary based upon life expectancy
                                    ■ Payments stop upon death of beneficiary
                                – Life income to beneficiary
                                    ■ Paid to someone else if beneficiary dies before end of period certain.
                                – Pays beneficiary an income for life
                                    ■ Pays someone else balance of death benefit if beneficiary doesn’t live long enough
               D. life-income option                                       determining the amount the beneficiary will
        3.     Walter is the beneficiary of his mother’s life              A. interest-only option
               D. joint and survivorship life income option                    long as the beneficiary lives
                                                                           B. payments continue even if the beneficiary
                                     determining the amount the beneficiary will
                                     A. The age of the beneficiary
                                                                              ends even if the beneficiary dies shortly after
