                                    Development of Life Policy Premiums        78
                                    Access to Cash Values 137
                   $1,000 of death benefit and premium rates apply per unit of exposure.
                   The calculation for insurance premiums is the rate multiplied by the number of exposure units. For
                   example: if the life insurance rate is $32 per $1,000 of death benefit, the premium for a $100,000 policy
                   business has a loss. The individual or business has a cost in the form of a premium payment. However,
                   in contrast to the loss, which is large and uncertain, the premium is a much smaller certainty.
                   premiums affordable.
                   premium that, pooled together, will cover all claims and operating costs.
                         1. Calculable—Premiums must be calculable based upon prior loss statistics for that particular risk
                         2. Affordable—The premium for transferring the risk should be affordable for the average consumer.
                              than predicted. It increases the chance that they have not collected enough premiums to pay for their
                     reduce the total amount of loss it is liable for, one insurer may pay the other insurer a premium to
                     or hurricane. To protect the company from these catastrophic losses, the insurer pays a premium to
                               of excess premium. Mutual policies are referred to as participating, or par, policies because the
                                           Policyowners                                                    excess premiums can be
                   additional charges if premiums are not sufficient to pay claims during a given period. Policies with this
                   and are sometimes referred to as legal reserve companies.
                   account through which premiums are paid and earned interest is tracked. If any subscriber suffers a loss
                               rating agencies that evaluate various factors such as an insurer’s loss experience, reserves, investment
                               make sales presentations, assist the customer with the application, and collect premiums. These powers,
                               All premiums received by an agent are funds received and held in trust. The agent must account for
                               premiums must be kept separate from the agent’s personal funds.
                                                                                             • Promptly send premiums to
                                 1. Carl accepts the initial premium when he sells an insurance policy and he sends this to the
                                   a completed application to an insurer along with a payment for the first premium is making an offer to
                                   of the premium. Such an application is merely an invitation to the company to make an offer. The
                                   premium.
                                   the premium payment, and the insurer provides consideration in the form of a promise to pay if certain
                                                                                                   and money (premium) to the
                                                                                                   and first month’s premium to
                                                                                                      with higher premium or
                               occurrence of a loss which may or may not happen. The insured may pay premiums for many years and
                               only one relatively small premium and receive thousands of dollars in return if a covered loss occurs
                                                                                     premium for a large amount of
                   perform under the contract. The insured has the right to stop paying premiums at any time. However,
                   as long as the insured keeps the contract in force by paying the premiums, the insurer is required by law
                                                                                                        pay the premium
                                                                                        premium for coverage and file a
                   For example, by repeatedly accepting late premium payments, an insurance company may have waived
                   its right to cancel a policy for nonpayment or late payment of premium. In the future, the insurer may
                                 ■ If the company is profitable, can return excess premium to its policyholders—nontaxable dividend
                          ■ Promptly send premiums to insurer
                               – Insured gives information and money(premium) to the insurance company
                               – Insured submits application and first month’s premium to insurer
                                    ■ Agrees to issue policy but with higher premium or restrictions/exclusions
                            Aleatory—not equal value—small premium for a large amount of coverage
                                 ■ Insured does NOT promise to pay the premium
                            Conditional— insured must pay the premium for coverage and file a claim if a loss occurs
                                     enables insurance companies to properly classify and determine premiums for prospective insureds.
                          ӽ describe the collection of the first premium and the two types of receipts that can be issued:
                               Some insurers allow an application to be backdated so the premium can be based on an applicant’s
                               earlier age and lower the cost of the premium. Backdating would permit a 41-year old applicant to
                               To receive a less expensive premium, the applicant must pay any additional premiums that would have
                               2.4.7 Collecting the Premium
                               An “offer to buy” insurance exists when the first premium is submitted with the life insurance
                               application. If no premium is submitted with the application coverage is delayed until the premium
                               application is submitted and the first premium is collected, the policy will pay no benefit.
                               When the first premium is collected at the time of application, the producer must provide the applicant
                             The premium that was collected with the application will be returned to the policyowner or
                                                                                          • Premium paid with application
                   monthly bills. Issuers count on policyholders to pay their premium to defer the high initial costs to
                   anticipated by the company when it established its premiums. These risks can be insured for standard
                   additional charge, charging applicants the standard premium for a higher attained age, or reducing the
                   During the delivery appointment, the agent/producer must collect the first premium if it was not paid
                                                                                         • Required if no premium with
                   When the first premium is collected at the time of application for a policy, the effective date of coverage
                               substandard/higher premiums because the initial application for insurance was forwarded with a
                               standard premium.
                                      ■ If the applicant declines the substandard policy and does not pay the additional premium,
                                      ■ If the applicant accepts the substandard policy and pays the additional premium, the effective
                               If an application for insurance is sent to the insurer without the first premium, but it is paid at policy
                                                                                                             premium—date of policy
                                                                                                             if premium paid at delivery
                                           ■ collecting premiums;
                     The investors often loan money to the insured to pay the premiums for a specific period of time. Often
                     Act, companies that issue permanent life insurance, annuities, or other products that have cash value
                                     ■ Premium paid with application
                          ■ Required if no premium with application
                          ■ Substandard and pays additional premium—date of policy delivery
