        U N I T               5	   Life Insurance Riders 111
                                    Life Policy Riders    112
                                    Disability Riders 112
                                    Accelerated Benefits Rider 115
                                    Riders for Other Insureds 117
                                    Riders Affecting the Death Benefit 117
                                    Long-Term Care Rider 122
                        5—Life Insurance Policy Riders                                               X
                   During the delivery appointment, the producer will review with the policyowner the policy, riders,
               UNIT                    5                              Life Insurance Riders
                                      Life insurance is not a one size fits all solution; life insurance riders are benefit options to tailor a policy
                                      owner. Adding a rider to a life policy is just like customizing a car, purchasing a rider will increase the
                                      This unit will discuss the most common insurance policy riders including the waiver of premium, the
                                      accidental death benefit—commonly referred to as “double indemnity”—the guaranteed insurability
                                      rider.
                                      current situation and budget and then recommending the most appropriate policy rider(s).
                          ӽ define riders;
                          ӽ identify disability riders including waiver of premium, waiver of monthly deductions, waiver of
                            cost of insurance, disability income rider, and the payor benefit rider;
                          ӽ explain the accelerated death benefits rider;
                          ӽ identify the Other Insured Riders and exchange privilege (substitute insured) riders;
                          ӽ identify the death benefit term insurance rider, return of premium rider, accidental death benefit
                            rider, accidental death and dismemberment rider, guaranteed insurability rider, and cost of living
                            rider; and
                          ӽ describe the long term care rider.
        5.3        LIFE POLICY RIDERS
                   Riders add benefits to a life insurance policy. They customize coverage to fit the insured’s needs.
                   Policyowners are charged an additional premium for certain types of riders.
        5.4        DISABILITY RIDERS
                   5.4.1 Waiver of Premium
                   This is one of the most common types of life insurance riders. If the policyholder becomes disabled, the
                   waiver of premium rider will pay the premiums so the policyholder can continue to have coverage for
                   The waiver of premium rider is available during the insured’s working years and expires between ages
                                                                                                           Unit 5   Life Insurance Riders        113
                                                                                                    Waiver of Premium
                                      Waiver of Premium                                                 person
                                5.4.2 Disability Income Rider
                                The disability income rider provides the insured with a monthly benefit check if they become disabled.
                          Disability Income Rider
                                                                                     Disability Income Rider
                   5.4.3 Payor Benefit Rider
                   The payor benefit rider is usually found with juvenile policies. This provision states that if the person
                   usually 18 or 21. Since this rider adds insurance on the payor (the adult), medical underwriting may be
                          Payor Rider
                                                                                     Payor Rider
                                                                                                                 Unit 5   Life Insurance Riders        115
                                            Disability Riders
                                                                                                          Disability Riders
                                                                                                             • Waiver of premium
                                                                                                             • Disability income rider
                                                                                                             • Payor rider
                                5.5   ACCELERATED BENEFITS RIDER
                                      An accelerated death benefit rider is a standard coverage added to a life insurance policy that enables
                                      is reduced by the amount of the accelerated benefit payment.
                                                                                                Accelerated Benefits Rider
                          Accelerated Benefits Rider                                                benefit while insured is still alive
                                         B. A rider
                                 2. All of the following statements about the waiver of premium rider are true EXCEPT
                                    A. with the waiver of premium rider, at first, insureds are considered disabled if they are
                                         B. with the waiver of premium rider, if an insured recovers and returns to work after a
                                         C. with the waiver of premium rider, premiums are reduced by 80% during any period that
                                         D. with the waiver of premium rider, if the insured becomes permanently disabled before
                                 3. Which of the following riders allow insureds who are terminally ill to obtain benefits from
                                    A. Accelerated benefits rider
                                         B. Payor rider
                                         C. Disability income rider
                                         D. Waiver of premium rider
                                                                                                              Unit 5   Life Insurance Riders        117
                                5.6   RIDERS FOR OTHER INSUREDS
                                      5.6.1 Other (Additional) Insured Term Riders
                                      Other (additional) insured riders provide convertible term insurance for a spouse or an immediate
                                      family member of the primary insured. This rider is called a spouse rider or a children’s rider.
                                      A family rider covers both the insured’s spouse and children. Other insured riders can also be bought
                                      by the other (additional) insured rider is often convertible to permanent coverage during the effective
                                      period of the rider.
                                      5.6.2 Exchange Privilege (Substitute Insured) Riders
                                      The exchange privilege rider also called the substitute insured rider is used to change the insured to a
                                      different person. This rider is typically used when a business owns the policy and is also the beneficiary
                                      and the insured is a key employee. This rider switches the insured to another employee if the key
                                           Other Insured Riders
