                                      Social Security Disability 335
                   U N I T    2 0	   Medicare and Medicaid            409
                                      Medicare      410
                                      Medicare Supplement Insurance 422
                                      Medicare, Medicaid, and Long-Term Care 438
                        20—Medicare and Medicaid                                                                 X
                   These include Social Security benefits, military life insurance benefits, federal employee compensation
                          ■ Social Security number
                               Social Security pays survivor benefits during the family dependency and retirement periods. However
                               Blackout period—The Social Security Administration provides benefits for surviving spouses with
                               and 14. Social security would stop paying a benefit to the spouse at age 44, and resume/begin paying a
                                    ■ Social Security that can pay benefits to the surviving dependents.
                                    B. Term life insurance                                   D. social security
        2.     B. With industrial life insurance the face               10. D. Social Security actually pays the survivor
                                      address, Social Security number, dependent information and beneficiary designation. There are
                     exclusions are still allowed for disability policies, long-term care insurance, Medicare supplements, and
                          ■ Medicare—healthcare primarily for senior citizens & recipients of Social Security disability
                          ■ Social Security disability—for eligible individuals who become totally and permanently disabled
                                                                                                           • Medicare—primarily for senior
                                                                                                             citizens & Social Security
                                                                                                           • Social Security disability
                                     ■ Medicare—primarily for senior citizens & Social Security disability
                                     ■ Social Security disability
                                      ■ Government-sponsored programs (e.g., Medicare, Medicaid, CHIP, TRICARE, COBRA)
                                                    – Medicare supplements
                                exclusions are still allowed for disability policies, long-term care insurance, Medicare supplements, and
                   and Medicare supplements have 30-day free-look periods. If the policy is returned during the free look,
                                                                                                         for senior products-Medicare
                                     • 30 days LTC & Medicare                                            Supplements, Long Term Care)
                                – 10 days from receipt (30 days for senior products-Medicare Supplements, Long Term Care
                          ӽ describe social security disability and the benefits available and how to qualify; and
                   total disability this rider pays for additional benefits, less any legislated benefits like Social Security
                   payments from workers’ compensation and Social Security.
                                15.7 SOCIAL SECURITY DISABILITY
                                    To qualify for Social Security disability benefits, someone must have paid Social Security payroll
                                    into Social Security for 10 years, earning 40 credits.
                                    In addition, the person must meet Social Security’s definition of totally and permanently disabled, which
                                                                                          Social Security Disability
                          Social Security Disability                                          credits in last 13 quarters
                   Social Security Disability
                                   ■ Medicare eligibility for a covered employee;
                              ■ the date the individual becomes eligible for Medicare.
                     beneficiaries disabled at the time of termination. The disability must meet the Social Security definition
                                                                                               for Medicare
                                 plan, an HMO, an individual health insurance policy, Medicaid, or Medicare. As long as there is
                                         – Individual becomes eligible for Medicare
                UNIT          20                              Medicare and Medicaid
                                  Medicare and Medicaid are two government insurance programs that pay medical and health-related
                                  managed by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, a division of the U.S. Department of
                                  When an individual turns age 65 and has obtained fully insured status with Social Security, Medicare
                          ӽ identify the government sponsored health insurance programs: Medicare, Medicare supplement
                          ӽ describe Medicare and the benefits provided under Medicare Part A, B, C, and D;
                          ӽ explain enrollment and eligibility for Medicare Part A, available coverage, and exclusions with
                          ӽ explain enrollment and eligibility for Medicare Part B, available coverage, and cost sharing
                          ӽ list Medicare exclusions;
                          ӽ describe Part C: Medicare Advantage, its distinctions from Medicare A and B, and the four types
                          ӽ explain Medicare Part D: Prescription drug coverage;
                          ӽ explain coordination of coverage between Medicare and employer group health coverage;
                          ӽ identify Medicare supplement insurance (Medigap) and the 10 standard Medigap plans;
                            Medicare;
                          ӽ define Medicare SELECT; and
        20.3 MEDICARE
                   Medicare pays a large portion of the health care bill for persons who:
                          ■ have been receiving Social Security disability benefits for at least 24 months.
                   In order to be covered by Medicare, an individual must be “fully insured” according to Social Security.
                   amount of work-related income over at least the past 10 years and paying Social Security (FICA) taxes.
                   Medicare is federally funded by The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS), which is
                   companies process medical claims for Medicare and are known as Medicare Administrative
                   The initial enrollment for Medicare is a seven-month period that begins three months before the month
                                                                                                       Unit 20   Medicare and Medicaid        411
                                Medicare coverage is divided into four parts.
                                      ■ Part A covers hospital, skilled nursing facility, hospice, and home health care.
                                      ■ Part B covers medical care provided by physicians and other medical services.
                                      ■ Part C covers health care delivered by managed care plans.
                                      ■ Part D covers prescription drugs,
                                     Eligibility for Medicare Coverage
                                                                                                   Eligibility for Medicare Coverage
                                                                                                      • Received Social Security
                                20.3.2 Medicare Part A
                                For people age 65 and covered by Social Security, enrollment in Medicare Part A is automatic on the
