                              ӽ identify a producer’s fiduciary responsibility to applicants/insureds;
                               Agents have a fiduciary responsibility to applicants and insureds. A fiduciary is a person in a position
                               of financial trust. As a fiduciary, the agent has an obligation to act in the best interest of the insured.
                               The following are examples of an agent’s fiduciary responsibility.
                          Fiduciary
                                                                                           Fiduciary-Trust
                          Fiduciary = TRUST                                                  • Knowledge of products
                   Fiduciary-Trust
                method?                                                      B. a fiduciary
                            QUICK QUIZ 1.D                              8.   B. Agents have a fiduciary responsibility to
                            statement, medical examinations and testing, AIDS considerations, HIPAA disclosures, Medical
                               2.4.6.1 Disclosure Notification
                               collected. By signing the disclosure form, the applicant is giving the insurer consent to gather and
                               2.5.1.3.2 HIPAA Disclosures
                               the disclosure of insureds’ health information by medical providers, insurers, and producers. Health
                            ■ A consumer may make a written request for a complete disclosure of the nature and scope of the
                                 – Disclosure must be made in writing within five days after the date on which the consumer’s
                                   2.11.1 Fiduciary Responsibility
                                   management or plan assets of any kind must discharge that fiduciary duty solely in the interests of the
                                   Reporting and Disclosure ERISA requires that certain information concerning any employee
                                                                                              • Reporting and disclosure
                                         B. A financial disclosure statement
                          ■ Reporting and disclosure information for plan participants
                                                                                              replacement – annual income ×
                               as well as to help pay the costs of finding and training a replacement.
                                      5.5.3 Disclosure
                                      A written disclosure including, but not necessarily limited to, a brief description of the accelerated
                                                                                                  • Disclosure by company of effect
                                     ■ Disclosure by company of affect on death benefits and other benefits (Medicaid etc.)
                                favorable tax treatment: participation, non-discrimination, vesting, reporting and disclosure,
                                and fiduciary duty;
                                       ■ Reporting and disclosure—each participant must receive in writing, when they enroll, a summary
                                       ■ Fiduciary —anyone with control over the plan or its assets are fiduciaries. They must manage the
                                                                            • Reporting and disclosure—
                                                                            • Fiduciary duty—anyone with
                                    11.5.1 Fiduciary Responsibility
                                    management or plan assets of any kind must discharge that fiduciary duty solely in the interests of the
                                    Reporting and Disclosure ERISA requires that certain information concerning any employee
                                           D. Fiduciary duty
                                – Reporting and disclosure—each participant must receive, in writing, a summary plan
                                – Fiduciary Duty—anyone with control over the plan or its assets are fiduciaries. They must
                                            Disability income insurance is frequently referred to as income replacement or loss-of-time
               D. are a good replacement for general health
                                                                              income replacement insurance or loss-of-
                          ӽ describe pure loss of income (income replacement contracts);
                   15.3.2 Pure Loss of Income (Income Replacement Contracts)
                   An income replacement contract pays a benefit if the insured experiences a loss of income as a result
                   receive the full benefit under an income replacement contract. Lee was able to use a stylus and voice-
                   job. His income replacement contract would pay part of its benefit so that the combination of Lee’s
                          Income Replacement
                            result of suffering a covered illness.                      Income Replacement
                   Workers’ compensation is a form of insurance providing wage replacement and medical benefits to
                                         Wage replacement & medical benefits                                 • Rehabilitation,
                              ■ Income replacement
                                    truthful and full disclosure of pertinent information when selling these policies. As a rule, the insurer is
                              6. Privacy Disclosures HIPAA imposes specific requirements on health care providers, insurers,
                                    18.10.1             Fiduciary Responsibility
                                    management or plan assets of any kind must discharge that fiduciary duty solely in the interests of the
                                    Reporting and Disclosure ERISA requires that certain information concerning any employee
                           ■ prosthodontics—artificial replacements, such as bridges and dental implants; and
                                     subject to a higher coinsurance rate, such as 50%, as well as per-service limits. Replacement
                           ■ replacement of teeth missing at the time coverage became effective;
                           ■ replacement of lost dentures, duplicate dentures;
                                                                                        • Replacement of teeth missing
                                     ■ Prosthodontics—artificial replacements, such as bridges and dental implants
                A. replacement of lost dentures                              A. scheduled plan
                          ӽ explain disclosure, sales and marketing, required provisions, and replacement regulations with
                                    20.5.1 Disclosure
                                    Producers may not engage is twisting, high-pressure tactics, cold lead advertising (not disclosing that
                                    First year compensation may not exceed the amount of renewal compensation when a replacement
                   20.5.4 Replacement
                   The applicant must sign a Notice to Applicant Regarding Replacement of Medicare Supplement Insurance,
                                                                                         • Replacement sales commissions
                          ■ Replacement sales commissions cannot be greater than the new policies renewal commission
                          ■ determine whether the sale will involve replacement, and if so, have the applicant sign a Notice
                            Regarding Replacement;
                                                                                         involve replacement
                                                                                          • Notice Regarding Replacement
                                       – Determine whether the sale will involve replacement
                                            ■ Notice Regarding Replacement
            ment in the annuity divided by the expected ratio.              fiduciary Person in a position of special trust and confi-
                       covered worker’s full Social Security retirement benefit at   rebating Returning part of the commission or giving any-
        replacement Act of replacing one life insurance policy
             tions. (See twisting)
        term insurance Protection during limited number of                    twisting Practice of inducing a policyowner with one
        attained age 89                                rider 327                        fiduciary 21
                   income replacement contract 320          maximum out of pocket 352                persistency 381
        privacy disclosures 390                                                       term insurance rider 117
        reporting and disclosure 59, 249, 391   stop-loss limit 352                   warranty 30
