                                    Riders Affecting the Death Benefit 117
        U N I T               1 0	   Taxation of Life Insurance and Annuities          215
                                      Income Tax Treatment          216
                                      Estate Tax Treatment 227
        U N I T                2 2	   Taxation of Health Insurance              459
                        10—Taxation of Life Insurance and Annuities                                  X
                        22—Taxation of Health Insurance                                                          X
                   $1,000 of death benefit and premium rates apply per unit of exposure.
                   example: if the life insurance rate is $32 per $1,000 of death benefit, the premium for a $100,000 policy
                                                                                                           taxable dividend from the profits
                               policyowners as policy dividends. Mutual policy dividends are considered to be a non-taxable return
                                                                                                           nontaxable dividend
                               income tax advantages. They operate their insurance programs under a special section of the state
                                 ■ If the company makes money, a taxable dividend from the profits may be paid to the stockholders/
                                 ■ If the company is profitable, can return excess premium to its policyholders—nontaxable dividend
                             would have been issued had they lived, the policy is in force and the death benefit will be paid to
                               Insurers will underwrite some applications on a non-medical basis when the death benefit applied for
                               insurer usually requires the proposed insured to take a medical examination for larger death benefit
                               death benefit determines the type of examination and testing required by the insurer.
                     or a small continuing interest in the policy death benefit. Most states are banning STOLI transactions
                   In any case, the life insurance death benefit can be used to replace a deceased individual’s economic
                   that must be paid from an individual’s estate. This includes estate (death) taxes and probate expenses—
                   the size of the estate determines the amount of taxes due. What starts out as a large estate may be much
                   the buyer of the business is the beneficiary. The amount of the death benefit is the purchase price of the
                               which an employer pays a bonus to a particular employee. The bonus is tax deductible to the employer
                               free of income tax.
                               employee because the money is not taxable until the employee actually receives it. If the money were
                               paid now, it would be included with the employee’s current earnings and probably taxed at a higher
                               rate. After retirement, the employee may be in a lower tax bracket.
                                Death benefit only                                       Living and death benefits
                               3. Living and death benefits, level premiums, and lifetime coverage are characteristics of which
                                    has a death benefit only, increasing premiums            income need periods EXCEPT
                  money is not taxable until the employee
                   All life insurance policies pay a benefit upon the death of the insured. The amount of the death benefit
                   upon the type policy, the actual death benefit payable after the initial purchase of the policy can be
                   from variations in how living and death benefits are provided.
                   benefit and remain in force for a specified period of time, or term. No death benefit is payable if the
                   The death benefit of a level term policy equals the face amount throughout the term of coverage.
                               The death benefit of a decreasing term policy declines over the coverage period until it reaches zero
                               The death benefit of an increasing term policy begins near zero and grows over the term of coverage.
                               Increasing term coverage also helps keep life insurance death benefits current with inflation and keep
                                    .                                                                     • Death benefit is level
                                                                                                          • Death benefit decreases
                                                                                                          • Death benefit increases
                   The renewability feature guarantees the same amount of death benefit, however, the premium for the
                               Because term insurance provides only a death benefit, its premiums are lower than other types of life
                                 while the death benefit decreases?
                                  B. Term insurance provides only a death benefit
                                  D. No death benefit is payable if the insured dies after the term expires
                     4.5.1.3 Fixed, Level Death Benefit
                     Like its premium, the death benefit of a whole life policy is fixed and level. For as long as the policy is
                     payment of the guaranteed death benefit.
                               policyowner gives up the death benefit.
                               the policyholder to borrow up to the cash value of the policy. The policy and its death benefit remain in
                               charges are deducted from the policy’s death benefit.
                               4.5.1.8 Death Benefit Components
                               The whole life policy death benefit is payable upon the insured’s death. The death benefit consists of
                                      benefit. The death benefit equals the cash value plus the net amount at risk at any given time.
                               pay income tax on any taxable gain.
                          Traditional Whole Life                                           • Fixed & level death benefit
                                                                                           • Death benefit
                                    ■ a fixed, level death benefit, and
                   Not only can the cash value increase more quickly, but the death benefits can also grow. The primary
                   after a specified term. Cash values in whole life insurance policies accumulate tax deferred. By law
                               are not flexible. The death benefit cannot be increased. Lastly, the policyowner has no control over how
                                           3. The death benefit of a whole life policy is
                   An adjustable life policy gives the policyowner the options to adjust the face value/death benefit, the
                   If initially, an individual purchases an adjustable life policy with a large death benefit and low premium,
                   occurred in the premium payment. Increasing the premium without changing the death benefit would
                   The policyowner may increase or decrease the death benefit, subject to any insurability requirements.
                   In addition, the policyowner has the flexibility to choose one of two policy death benefit options.
                   Option A (or Option 1) provides for a level death benefit equal to the policy’s face value. As a result
                   Option B (or Option 2) provides for an increasing death benefit equal to the face value of the policy plus
                   the higher cost of the increasing death benefit over the life of the policy.
                   These illustrations depict how each death benefit options works. The corridor at the right of the Option
                   tax law when policies accumulate a high proportion of cash value compared to the death benefit.
                                                Option A—Universal Life Level Death Benefit
                                                   Level Death Benefit                        B    rrid
                                           Option B—Universal Life Increasing Death Benefit
                               death benefit by the amount of the withdrawal. A withdrawal is federal income tax-free up to the cost
