                                    Settlement Options 130
                                    including the purpose of each policy, the claims settlement process, and the language of insurance
                   predict fairly accurately how many dollars in claims they will have to pay out each year based on
                   premium that, pooled together, will cover all claims and operating costs.
                               company. Funds that remain after paying claims and operating costs may be distributed to the
                   additional charges if premiums are not sufficient to pay claims during a given period. Policies with this
                   pay the claim. Administration, underwriting, sales promotion, and claims handling for the reciprocal
                   advance and may even have a claim system like an insurance company. They often contract with an
                                                                                            claims
                               company could be made to pay the claim because of the actions of its agent. For example, a company
                                    C. claimant
                   deceptively. Violation of that reasonable expectation can void the claims of the offending party under a
                                                                                        claim if a loss occurs
                               claim, it would be a matter of fraud. If someone misrepresents something on an application (perhaps a
                            Self-Insurance—a business that pays its own claims
                            Conditional— insured must pay the premium for coverage and file a claim if a loss occurs
                                     with actuaries, risk managers, and claims managers to protect the company from potential claims.
                               waives its right to that information. If a claim arises, the company cannot deny it based on the fact that
                          ■ History of disability claims
                          ■ Applicants must also be notified that applying for insurance or filing a claim with another
                                           ■ submitting claims.
                               2.   D. The beneficiary                                       disability claims and medical treatments
                               1.   A. Standard risks represent average exposures           a claim if it turns out that the insured’s
                                     loss or claim occurs. If someone sells a house and it later burns down, that individual cannot claim a
                                    ■ debt payoff—home mortgage, credit cards, car loans, other installment loans;
                   out as claims.
                               Original age: Age at the time the original term policy was written. A lump sum amount is required
                               contract and reclaim a share of the reserve fund attributable to the policy. By cashing in a policy, the
                           ■ 10-pay or 20-pay whole life; the premiums are payable in 10 or 20 level annual installments, and
                           ■ life paid-up at age 65; premiums are payable in level annual installments from the date of purchase
                                                                                          claims maximum paid is
                                – If multiple dismemberment claims while inured is alive, the principal sum is the maximum
                                  paid for all claims combined
                                      insured’s lifetime, and “settlement options,” what choices are available to a beneficiary upon the death of
                          ӽ explain the seven settlement options: interest only, fixed period, fixed amount, life income, life
                   All life insurance policies have a death benefit and the settlement options are used to determine how
        6.4        SETTLEMENT OPTIONS
                   The life insurance policyowner may designate a specific settlement option to be paid upon his or her
                   lump sum. Settlement options include interest income only option, fixed period option, fixed amount
                   Under the interest income (only) settlement option, the insurer retains the death benefit and pays a
                                The following illustration depicts the interest only settlement option:
                                                     Interest Only Settlement Option
                   This illustration depicts the fixed period settlement option:
                                         Fixed Period Settlement Option
                   With the fixed amount settlement option, the proceeds will be paid out in a fixed amount over time
                   could also even change to a different settlement option altogether. Three factors are used to determine
                                                     Fixed Amount Settlement Option
                   This illustration depicts the life only settlement option:
                                                          Life Only Settlement Option
                                This illustration depicts the life with period certain settlement option:
                                                                       Life with Period Certain Settlement Option
                                The life with refund settlement option pays an income for as long as the beneficiary is alive, but also
                                other person is either the remainder of the death benefit or in installments.
                                This illustration depicts the life with refund settlement option:
                                                                              Life with Refund Settlement Option
                                                                                                                                                 lump sum or
                   The joint-and-survivor life settlement option continues paying a benefit for as long as either
                   This illustration depicts the joint-and-survivor life settlement option:
                                                   Joint-and-Survivor Life Settlement Option
                                                   1. Which settlement option pays only the earnings on the death benefit to a beneficiary?
