                                        Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) 59
        U N I T               1 1	   Retirement Plans              235
                                      Employer-Sponsored Qualified Plans 243
                                      Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) 249
                                      Non-Qualified Plans 249
                                      Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) 391
                        11—Retirement Plans                                                          X
                            IOLI), the U.S Patriot Act, and the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA).
                               2.11 EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT INCOME SECURITY ACT (ERISA)
                                   ERISA was enacted to protect the interests of participants in employee benefit plans as well as the
                                   interests of the participants’ beneficiaries. Much of the law deals with qualified pension plans, but some
                                   ERISA mandates very detailed standards for fiduciaries and other parties-in-interest of employee
                                   Reporting and Disclosure ERISA requires that certain information concerning any employee
                          ERISA
                                                                                             ERISA
                                                                                              • Qualified pension plans & group
                   ERISA
                          ■ Qualified pension plans & group insurance
                     a retired couple living on income from both of their pension plans would be ideal candidates for this
                     policy. When either spouse dies, the other will only have their own pension benefit to live on and the
                                9.7.2 Employer-Sponsored Retirement Plans
                                Annuities are designed to accept employer contributions made to the retirement plans set up for their
                                plans may be funded with group annuities. The retirement plan owns the group annuity, and the
                                retirement plan document describes the benefits to which employees are entitled.
                                     Employer sponsored retirement plans
                   Annuity premiums are not tax-deductible, unless the contract is held in a qualified retirement plan.
                                        retirement plan
               UNIT             11                                 Retirement Plans
                                    several employer-sponsored and individual retirement plans.
                              ӽ identify the tax advantages, taxation of distributions of employee sponsored retirement plans;
                              ӽ identify the five general requirements for employer sponsored retirement plans to receive
                              ӽ describe the seven employer-sponsored qualified plans: Pension plans (defined benefit or defined
                                contribution), Profit-sharing plans, Keogh plans, 401k plans, 403(b) plans, simplified employee
                                pension plans, savings incentive match plans for employees (SIMPLEs);
                              ӽ explain ERISA (Employee Retirement Income Security Act); and
                              ӽ explain non-qualified plans and how they are different from qualified plans.
                     NOTE: Passive income from rental properties—interest, dividends, pensions, annuities—cannot be
                                                                                                          Unit 11   Retirement Plans    237
                                     ■ the individual or spouse is not covered by an employer-sponsored retirement plan; or
                                                                                                          Unit 11   Retirement Plans    239
                                     ■ rollovers: the money from the original IRA or qualified plan is distributed to the owner and they
                                     ■ transfers: called direct transfers—the money from the original IRA or qualified plan is distributed
                     Retirees must start receiving a required minimum distribution from qualified retirement plans by
                                                                                                            Unit 11   Retirement Plans        241
                                                                                                            Unit 11   Retirement Plans    243
                              11.4 EMPLOYER-SPONSORED QUALIFIED PLANS
                                  All employer-sponsored qualified plans have the following tax advantages.
                                       ■ All (except for the Roth 401(k) feature) earnings grow tax-deferred.
                                  All (except for the Roth 401(k) feature) distributions from employer-sponsored qualified plans are
                                  Tax rules for distributions from employer-sponsored qualified plans are similar to traditional IRAs.
                                  All employer-sponsored qualified plans must be approved by the IRS to qualify for favorable tax
                                  treatment. The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) established the following
                                  requirements for retirement plans.
                          Employer Sponsored Retirement Plans               • Regulated by ERISA (Employee
                                                                                 a retirement plan
                                                                                                         Unit 11   Retirement Plans        245
                                11.4.4 Types of Employer-Sponsored Qualified Plans
                                11.4.4.1 Pension Plans
                                Pension plans may be either defined benefit or defined contribution plans. Pension plans require
                                Defined benefit pension plans are designed to provide a specific benefit to an employee upon
                                Defined contribution pension plans do not specify what an employee will receive at retirement; it only
                                     Pension Plans                                                Pension Plans
                                                 Pension plans are
                   Keogh plans (HR-10 plans) are qualified retirement plans set up by self-employed persons and non-
                   11.4.4.4 401(k) Plans
                   401(k) Plans allow taxpayers a break on taxes on their deferred income. Employees can save and
                                                                                                          Unit 11   Retirement Plans        247
                                     401(k)
                                                                                                 401(k)
                                11.4.4.5 403(b) Plans
                                403(b) Plans (also known as tax-sheltered accounts) work much like 401(k) plans, but they are for
                                and employer contribution limits are generally the same as those for 401(k) plans.
                                     403(b)
                                                                                                 403(b)
                                11.4.4.6 Simplified Employee Pension (SEP) Plans
                                Simplified Employee Pension (SEP) plans have significantly less paperwork and easier administration
                                than qualified retirement plans. Essentially, each employee sets up an IRA and the employer makes
                              Simplified Employee Pension (SEP) Plans
                                                                                       Simplified Employee Pension (SEP)
                     Savings Incentive Match Plans for Employees (SIMPLEs) are a simplified retirement plan for small
