                              a qualification exam. The North American Securities Administrators Association (NASAA)
                                   130-question exam (plus 10 unscored questions) prepared by NASAA and administered by
                                   The exams administered by NASAA are not easy. You must display considerable
                               The questions on NASAA exams are often embellished with deceptive distractors as choices.
                               Many questions on NASAA exams supply so much information that you lose track of what
                                   To obtain admission to a NASAA exam, you or your firm must electronically apply and pay
                               the room clean” before you enter. FINRA and NASAA take test security seriously.
                                       life settlement. NASAA concludes that these settlements, regardless of the health status or
                                    ❯❯ LO 8.a Identify instruments that are defined as securities under the Uniform Securities Act.
                                    ❯❯ LO 8.c	Recognize the securities exempt from registration under the Uniform Securities Act and the
                                    ❯❯ LO 8.d	Recall the exempt transactions under the Uniform Securities Act and the Securities Act of
                                    ❯❯ LO 8.g	Identify the methods of state registration of securities, including the antifraud provisions of
                                                the Uniform Securities Act.
                                    Investment Advisers Act of 1940. On the state level, it is the Uniform Securities Act (USA).
                                    of NASAA, the North American Securities Administrators Association, the group of state,
                                       Uniform Securities Act.
                                       The Uniform Securities Act of 1956 (USA)
                                       laws among the states arose. In 1956, the original Uniform Securities Act was drafted as
                                                    The exam will test your knowledge of the Uniform Securities Act, not the specifics
                                                    Administrators Association (NASAA), the advisory body of state securities
                                                          Which of the following is defined as a security under the Uniform Securities Act?
                                       Securities Under the Uniform Securities Act
                                       Under the Uniform Securities Act, among the many items included in the definition of
                                              Uniform Securities Act, with respect to certificates of interest; participation in oil, gas,
                                    Uniform Securities Act and the Securities Act of 1933.
                                    Exemptions from Registration Under the Uniform Securities Act
                                    Under the Uniform Securities Act, the exemptions discussed in this LO refer to an exemption
                                    Provided it is in the public interest, the state Administrator can deny, suspend, or revoke any
                                    Exempt securities under the Uniform Securities Act include the following:
                                                    exemption under the Uniform Securities Act.
                                              securities, the Uniform Securities Act allows states to impose filing fees on them under
                                                          requirements of the Uniform Securities Act?
                                       significant differences. As a NASAA exam, the exam will focus on the state laws, but you
                                          securities). Note that Canadian securities are not included in this exemption (NASAA
                                          denomination or rating requirement similar to that found in the Uniform Securities Act
                                       exempt under the Uniform Securities Act and will probably have to register with the state.
                                                          literature filing requirements of the Uniform Securities Act?
                                    Exempt Transactions Under the Uniform Securities Act
                                       transaction is an unsolicited brokerage transaction exempt from state registration. But
                                                   Under the Uniform Securities Act, which of the following persons is responsible for
                                                    C. State Administrator
                                    An exempt transaction is exempt from the regulatory control of the state Administrator
                                        –– Please note that NASAA has stated “a person seeking accredited investor status by
                                                    2.    As defined in the Uniform Securities Act, each of the following would be considered
                                    Even though registration under the Uniform Securities Act (the law that deals with regulation
                                    under the Uniform Securities Act.
                                    State law, under the Uniform Securities Act, requires disclosures similar to those under federal
                                    Under the Uniform Securities Act, it is unlawful for any person to offer or sell an unregistered
                                    State Administrators require every issuer to supply the following information on their
                                       LO 8.g Identify the methods of state registration of securities,
                                       including the antifraud provisions of the Uniform Securities Act.
                                       State Registration Methods
                                    The Uniform Securities Act gives the Administrator the authority to require notice filings with
                                    Under the notice filing procedure, state Administrators may require the issuer of certain
                                       In coordinating a federal registration with state registration, issuers must supply the following
                                    registration, a registration by qualification becomes effective whenever the state Administrator
                                                    3.    In general, registration statements for securities under the Uniform Securities Act are
                                       Antifraud Provisions of the Uniform Securities Act
                                       antifraud statues as well, the exam will focus on those of the Uniform Securities Act. The
                                    provisions of the Uniform Securities Act.
                                    security and is not covered under the antifraud statutes of the Uniform Securities Act. On                      Unit 8
                                    state Administrator when there is an alleged violation of the antifraud provisions of the USA.
                                    of the Uniform Securities Act do not apply. Of course, the state insurance department would
                                                           D. the state Administrator.
                                                    2.    In general, registration statements for securities under the Uniform Securities Act are
                                               Uniform Securities Act.
                                    the functions of an investment adviser, as the term is defined in the Uniform Securities Act
                                       worded in the Uniform Securities Act:
                                       Definition: person. As defined in the Uniform Securities Act, “‘Person’ means an individual
                                                    2.   Under the Uniform Securities Act, the term person would not refer to which of the
                                       Advisers Act of 1940 and the Uniform Securities Act.
                                       to any provisions of the Investment Advisers Act or the Uniform Securities Act (other than
                                       be exempt from state registration requirements as an investment adviser because that person
                                       enjoys an exemption from state registration under the Uniform Securities Act. An example
                                       specifically excluded from the definition of investment adviser in the Uniform Securities Act.
                                    state law (the Uniform Securities Act), there are seven primary exclusions from the definition
                                                           The Uniform Securities Act excludes certain persons from the definition of an
                                    In the same manner as the federal law, the Uniform Securities Act exempts from registration
                                    Investment advisers exempt from registration with the state Administrator are those who
                                       NASAA’s Model Rule for the Registration Exemption for Investment Advisers to Private
