                           Uniform Combined State
                                        Law Exam
                                                    Series 66
                                                     10th Edition



                              Securities License Exam Manual




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 1                                    7/15/2016 2:02:31 PM
                           At press time, this edition contains the most complete and accurate
                           information currently available. Owing to the nature of license examinations,
                           however, information may have been added recently to the actual test that
                           does not appear in this edition. Please contact the publisher to verify that you
                           have the most current edition.

                           This publication is designed to provide accurate and authoritative information
                           in regard to the subject matter covered. It is sold with the understanding
                           that the publisher is not engaged in rendering legal, accounting, or other
                           professional services. If legal advice or other expert assistance is required, the
                           services of a competent professional should be sought.




                           SERIES 66 UNIFORM COMBINED STATE LAW EXAM, 10TH EDITION
                           LICENSE EXAM MANUAL
                           ©2016 Kaplan, Inc.

                           The text of this publication, or any part thereof, may not be reproduced in any
                           manner whatsoever without written permission from the publisher.

                           If you find imperfections or incorrect information in this product, please visit
                           www.kaplanfinancial.com and submit an errata report.


                           Published in July 2016 by Kaplan Financial Education.

                           Printed in the United States of America.


                           ISBN: 978-1-4754-4152-9




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 2                                                                                        7/15/2016 2:02:31 PM
                       Contents

                                                  Introduction      v


                                               U N I T      1     aws, Regulations and Guidelines, Including
                                                                  L
                                                                  Prohibitions on Unethical Business Practices 1

                   1.1     Session 1       Federal Securities Regulations 3

                   1.2     Session 2       State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA) 45

                   1.3     Session 3	Federal and State Regulation of Investment Advisers and Their
                                      Representatives 153

                   1.4     Unit 1 Test   249

                                               U N I T      2     Investment Vehicle Characteristics      271

                   1.5     Session 4	Types and Characteristics of Equity Securities Including Methods Used to
                                      Determine Their Value 273

                   1.6     Session 5	Types and Characteristics of Fixed Income (Debt) Securities and Methods Used to
                                      Determine Their Value 289

                   1.7     Session 6       Types and Characteristics of Cash and Cash Equivalents 313

                   1.8     Session 7       Pooled Investments 321

                   1.9     Session 8       Insurance-Based Products 345

                   1.10    Session 9       Types and Characteristics of Derivative Securities 371

                   1.11    Session 10      Alternative Investments and Other Assets 387

                   1.12    Unit 2 Test   397

                                               U N I T      3     Economic Factors and Business Information 405

                   1.13    Session 11      Basic Economics 407

                   1.14    Session 12      Methods of Quantitative Analysis 425

                   1.15    Session 13      Types of Investment Risks 443

                   1.16    Unit 3 Test   455




                                                                                                                         iii




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 3                                                                                         7/15/2016 2:02:31 PM
     iv         ﻿Contents




                                               U N I T       4     lient Investment
                                                                   C                     Recommendations       and
                                                                   Strategies 459

             1.17          Session 14      Type of Client 461

             1.18          Session 15      Client Profile   481

             1.19          Session 16      Portfolio Management Styles, Strategies, and Techniques 495

             1.20          Session 17      Tax Considerations 515

             1.21          Session 18      Trading Securities 541

             1.22          Session 19      Performance Measures 559

             1.23          Session 20      Retirement Plans and Educational Funding Programs 573

             1.24          Unit 4 Test   629


                                                   Appendix A: Federal vs. State Comparison Chart        647

                                                   Appendix B: NASAA Model Rule on Unethical Business
                                                   Practices of Investment Advisers, Investment Adviser
                                                   Representatives, and Federal Covered Advisers
                                                   [with review annotation notes] 649

                                                   Appendix C: Abbreviations, Dates, and Calculations for
                                                   the Series 66 Exam 655

                                                   Glossary       661

                                                   Index    691




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 4                                                                                             7/15/2016 2:02:31 PM
                       Introduction

                   ❚ INTRODUCTION
                               Thank you for choosing Kaplan for your educational needs and wel­come to the Series 66
                           License Exam Manual (LEM). This manual applies adult learning principles to give you the
                           tools you’ll need to pass your exam on the first attempt.


                           Why Do I Need to Pass the Series 66 Exam?
                               Most states require passing a qualification examination by those who give investment
                           advice, or perform certain related functions. The North American Securities Administrators
                           Association (NASAA) has created the Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam as one
                           of the options that may be used to meet that requirement.


                           Are There Any Prerequisites?
                                There are no prerequisites to sit for the Series 66 exam. However, the test assumes that
                           the applicant has a broad range of knowledge or experience with investments. Because a sig­
                           nificant percentage of our students come to us without that background, this manual attempts
                           to cover all of the basics as well as the more advanced material tested. Those of you with a
                           Series 6 or Series 7 registration will find these basics a good review that will help set the stage
                           for learning the intricate topics you will need to know.


                           Examination Waivers
                                Passing the Series 65 or Series 66 (in conjunction with the Series 7) normally is a prereq­
                           uisite to getting licensed as an investment adviser representative. However, most states will
                           allow an individual to substitute one of the following certifications for passing the exam:
                           ■■ CFP®—CERTIFIED FINANCIAL PLANNERTM (granted by the CFP Board of Stan­
                                dards);
                           ■■ CIC—Chartered Investment Counselor (granted by the Investment Adviser Associa­
                                tion);
                           ■■ ChFC®—Chartered Financial Consultant® (granted by the The American College of
                                Financial Services);
                           ■■ PFS—Personal Financial Specialist (granted by the American Institute of Certified Public
                                Accountants); and
                           ■■ CFA®—Chartered Financial Analyst® (granted by the Chartered Financial Analyst Insti­
                                tute).

                                The individual applicant still has to go through other state licensing requirements, such as
                           filing a Form U-4 or Form U-10 and payment of fees.




                                                                                                                                 v




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 5                                                                                              7/15/2016 2:02:31 PM
        vi         Introduction



                             What Is the Series 66 Exam Like?
                                The Series 66 is a 2½-hour, 110-question exam (100 questions scored) prepared by the
                             North American Securities Administrators Association (NASAA) and administered by
                             FINRA. It is offered as a com­puter-based exam at Prometric testing centers around the country.


                             What Score Must I Achieve to Pass?
                                You need a score of at least 73% (73 questions correct of the 100 scored) on the Series 66
                             exam to pass and become eligible for registration as both a Registered Securities Agent and a
                             Registered Investment Adviser Representative.


                             What Topics Will I See on the Exam?
                                 The questions you will see on the Series 66 exam do not appear in any particular order.
                             The computer is programmed to select a new, random set of questions for each exam taker
                             according to the preset topic weighting of the exam. Each Series 66 candidate will see the
                             same number of questions on each topic but will see a different mix of questions. The Series
                             66 exam is divided into 4 critical function areas.

                                                                                                 Number of       Percentage
                                                                                                 Questions        of Exam
                             1. Economic Factors and Business Information                             5              5
                             2. Investment Vehicle Characteristics                                   20              20
                             3. Client Investment Recommendations and Strategies                     30              30
                             4. Laws, Regulations, and Guidelines, including Prohibitions on        45              45
                                 Unethical Business Practices


                                When you complete your exam, you will receive a printout that identifies your perfor­
                             mance in each area.




        ❚ PREPARING FOR THE EXAM
                             How Is the License Exam Manual Organized?
                                  The License Exam Manual consists of four units (chapters). Each of these units corre­
                             sponds to one of the function areas tested. Furthermore, each of the units is divided into ses­
                             sions covering specific areas within the unit. The introduction to each session indicates the
                             number of questions you can expect the exam to ask about that session’s material. For students
                             attending one of our classes, live or online, the class lecture will follow the sequence of these
                             sessions.
                                  There will be a test at the end of each unit. These questions have been selected to repeat
                             and reinforce the information presented in the reading.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 6                                                                                                         7/15/2016 2:02:31 PM
                                                                                                                       Introduction         vii



                                       In order that the material being presented is properly explained, it sometimes happens that
                                   a term or phrase is used prior to its formal introduction in the course. In almost all cases, you
                                   can consult the glossary for the definition or the index to locate a more complete discussion.
                                       In addition to the regular text, the LEM also has some unique features designed to help
                                   with quick understanding of the material. When additional emphasis is valuable to your com­
                                   prehension, the following distinctions are made:



                              ✓
                           TA K E N O T E
                                                       Each Take Note provides special information designed to amplify important
                                                   points.




                                !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT                Each Test Topic Alert reviews content that is especially likely to appear on the
                                                   exam.




                             *Q
                            EXAMPLE




                           QUICK QUIZ
                                                       Examples provide practical applications that convert theory into understanding.




                                                       Quick Quizzes are a quick interactive review of what you just read. These ensure
                                                   you understand and retain the material.


                                   Additional Study Resources
                                       To accompany and supplement your License Exam Manual, your study package may con­
                                   tain additional study resources. Be sure to spend some time on your homepage, view the best
                                   practices video, and understand all that is available to help you study.

                                       SecuritiesPro™ Qbank

                                        Coordinating with the LEM, the SecuritiesPro QBank includes a large number of ques­
                                   tions that are similar in style and content to those you will encounter on the exam. You may
                                   use it to generate tests by a spe­cific unit or combination of units. The QBank also allows you to
                                   create weighted mock exams that mimic your test. There is no limit on the number of QBank
                                   exams you can create.
                                        Another important point is that the online questions are “live.” That is, unlike this man­
                                   ual, which, once printed, can’t be changed, our questions can be updated with a moment’s
                                   notice. This enables us to keep current with rule changes and, to the extent possible, with new
                                   topics as they are added to the Series 66 exam. When we author questions covering new mate­
                                   rial that is not in this manual, there will be an asterisk (*) placed after the reference number,
                                   indicating the general area where this topic belongs and that there is no specific information
                                   dealing with it other than this (or similar) questions and the exam tips and content updates
                                   link.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 7                                                                                                              7/15/2016 2:02:31 PM
        viii       Introduction



                                  Practice and Mastery Exams

                                 Depending on the study package purchased, you may also have a fixed practice exam or a
                             fixed practice and mastery exam. These exams are designed to closely replicate the true exam
                             experience, both in terms of the degree of difficulty and topical coverage. They provide scores
                             and diagnostic feedback, but you will not be given access to, or be able to obtain from Kaplan,
                             correct answers or question explanations. The practice and mastery exams are sound indica­
                             tors of potential actual exam scores—the better you do on these exams, the more likely you
                             are to pass your actual exam. These may only be taken once each.

                                  Video Library

                                 You may also have access to various topics from our video library. These short, engaging
                             videos cover key topics from your manual. If your package includes access to our video library,
                             please review the topics as you complete your reading assignments in the study manual.
                                 Because the videos are not exam specific, you may encounter material that is not covered
                             in your License Exam Manual. Just skip ahead until the slide shows something familiar.

                                  Exam Tips & Content Updates Link

                                 Don’t forget to monitor your Exam Tips & Content Updates (located on your dash­
                             board)—when rules and regulations change, or we want to share new information regarding
                             your exam, it is posted there.
                                 And one more thing. In addition, try as we may, in a text this large, errors are difficult to
                             avoid. When we become aware of them, we acknowledge them in the Corrections tab, also
                             located on your homepage.


                             What Topics Are Covered in the Course?
                                 The License Exam Manual consists of four units, each devoted to a particular area of
                             study that you will need to know to pass the Series 66. Each unit is divided into study sessions
                             devoted to more specific areas with which you need to become familiar.
                                 The Series 66 License Exam Manual addresses the following topics:
                                          Unit                                      Topic
                                           1        Laws, Regulations, and Guidelines, including Prohibitions on
                                                     Unethical Business Practices
                                           2        Investment Vehicle Characteristics
                                           3        Economic Factors and Business Information
                                           4        Client Investment Recommendations and Strategies



                             How Much Time Should I Spend Studying?
                                  Plan to spend approximately 50–100 hours reading the material and carefully answering
                             the questions. Spread your study time over the 4–5 weeks before the date on which you are
                             scheduled to take the Series 66 exam. Your actual time may vary depending on your reading
                             rate, comprehension, professional background (those with a securities background will gener­
                             ally require less time and that is the reason for the wide range in recommended study hours),
                             and study environment.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 8                                                                                                         7/15/2016 2:02:31 PM
                                                                                                           Introduction          ix



                           What Is the Best Way to Structure My Study Time?
                                The following schedule is suggested to help you obtain maximum retention from your
                           study efforts. Remember, this is a guideline only, because each individual may require more or
                           less time to complete the steps included.

                                Step 1. Read a unit, session by session, and complete all exercises. Review rationales for
                           all questions whether you got them right or wrong (time will vary based on the size of the
                           unit).

                               Step 2. In the SecuritiesPro QBank, create a minimum of two 40 question exams for
                           each unit (two 20-question exams for Unit 3 because it is so short) as you go. Carefully re­
                           view all rationales. Use the reference number to locate additional or related information on
                           the test topic in your LEM if needed (3–4 hours per unit).
                           ■■ Do not become too overwhelmed or bogged down in any one unit. You don’t want to lose
                               sight of the finish line because you’re having trouble with one hurdle. Keep moving for­
                               ward. It’s a steady pace that wins the race.
                           ■■ View rationales after each question initially and spend time studying each rationale in
                               order to learn the concepts. Later, you will want to create exam scenarios in which scores
                               and rationales are viewed at the end of each exam.
                           ■■ Perfection is not the goal during the reading phase; a score in the high-60s to low 70’s is
                               good initially.

                                Step 3. When you have completed all the units in the License Exam Manual and their
                           unit tests, using the SecuritiesPro QBank, concentrate on comprehensive exams covering
                           all the material. With your comprehensive testing it is best to view correct answers and
                           rationales only after the test is completed. Plan to spend at least one week testing prior to a
                           scheduled class (3 hours for every 100 questions).
                           ■■ You should complete at least five weighted mock exams prior to class. Review all of your
                                answers and rationales. Also, review your LEM and video library as needed.
                           ■■ Your goal is to consistently score in the 80s.

                               Step 4. Complete online practice and mastery exams. You should complete each exam
                           while observing the time limits for the actual exam. Upon completing the exam, you will
                           receive a diagnostic report that identifies topics for further review (2½ hours per exam).
                           We recommend taking the practice exam prior to a scheduled class and the mastery exam
                           afterward.

                           How Well Can I Expect to Do?
                               The exams prepared by NASAA are not easy. You must display considerable under­
                           standing and knowledge of the topics presented in this course to pass the exam and qualify for
                           registration.
                               If you study diligently, complete all sections of the course, and consistently score in the 80s
                           on the tests, you should be well prepared to pass the exam. However, it is important for you
                           to realize that merely knowing the materials will not enable you to pass unless you can apply
                           your knowledge to the questions you are given and understand the essence of the information
                           behind the question.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 9                                                                                                  7/15/2016 2:02:31 PM
        x          Introduction




        ❚ TEST-TAKING TIPS
                                 Passing the exam depends not only on how well you learn the subject matter, but also on
                             how well you take exams. You can develop your test-taking skills, and improve your score, by
                             learning a few test-taking techniques.
                             ■■ Read the full question.
                             ■■ Avoid jumping to conclusions—watch for hedge clauses.
                             ■■ Interpret the unfamiliar question.
                             ■■ Look for key words and phrases.
                             ■■ Identify the intent of the question.
                             ■■ Memorize key points.
                             ■■ Use a calculator.
                             ■■ Beware of changing answers.
                             ■■ Pace yourself.

                                 Each of these pointers is explained below, including examples that show how to use them
                             to improve your performance on the exam.


                             Read the Full Question
                                 You cannot expect to answer a question correctly if you do not know what it is asking. If
                             you see a question that seems familiar and easy, you might anticipate the answer, mark it, and
                             move on before you finish reading it. This is a serious mistake. Be sure to read the full question
                             before answering it. Mistakes are often made when assuming too much (or too little).


                             Avoid Jumping to Conclusions—Watch for Hedge Clauses
                                 The questions on NASAA exams are embellished with distractors as choices. To avoid
                             being misled by seemingly obvious answers, make it a practice to read each question and
                             each answer twice before selecting your choice. Doing so will provide you with a much better
                             chance of doing well on the exam.
                                 Watch out for hedge clauses embedded in the question. Examples of hedge clauses include
                             the terms if, not, all, none, and except. In the case of if statements, the question can be answered
                             correctly only by taking into account the qualifier. If you ignore the qualifier, you will not
                             answer correctly.
                                 Qualifiers are sometimes combined in a question. Some that you will frequently see
                             together are all with except and none with except. In general, when a question starts with all or
                             none and ends with except, you are looking for an answer that is opposite to what the question
                             appears to be asking.


                             Interpret the Unfamiliar Question
                                 Do not be surprised if some questions on the exam seem unfamiliar at first. If you have
                             studied your material, you will have the information to answer all the questions correctly. The
                             challenge may be a matter of understanding what the question is asking.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 10                                                                                                           7/15/2016 2:02:32 PM
                                                                                                           Introduction          xi



                                Very often, questions present information indirectly. You may have to interpret the mean­
                            ing of certain elements before you can answer the question. Be aware that the exam will
                            approach a concept from different angles.


                            Look for Key Words and Phrases
                                Look for words that are tip-offs to the situation presented. For example, if you see the word
                            prospectus in the question, you know the question is about a new issue. Sometimes a question
                            will even supply you with the answer if you can recognize the key words it contains. Few ques­
                            tions provide blatant clues, but many do offer key words that can guide you to selecting the
                            correct answer if you pay attention. Be sure to read all instructional phrases carefully. Take
                            time to identify the key words to answer this type of question correctly.


                            Identify the Intent of the Question
                                Many questions on NASAA exams supply so much information that you lose track of
                            what is being asked. This is often the case in story problems. Learn to separate the story from
                            the question.
                                Take the time to identify what the question is asking. Of course, your ability to do so
                            assumes you have studied sufficiently. There is no method for correctly answering questions if
                            you don’t know the material.


                            Memorize Key Points
                                Reasoning and logic will help you answer many questions, but you will have to memorize
                            a good deal of information. Some memorization will be automatic as you go over the material
                            and answer questions; some you will simply have to do systematically.


                            Use of a Calculator
                                For the most part, there are only a few questions that will require the use of a calculator.
                            Any math will be simple math; add, subtract, multiply, and divide. We recommend using a
                            calculator for math. A calculator will be supplied upon request.


                            Avoid Changing Answers
                               If you are unsure of an answer, your first hunch is the one most likely to be correct. Do not
                            change answers on the exam without good reason. In general, change an answer only if you:
                            ■■ discover that you did not read the question correctly; or
                            ■■ find new or additional helpful information in another question.


                            Pace Yourself
                                Some people will finish the exam early and some do not have time to finish all the ques­
                            tions. Watch the time carefully (your time remaining will be displayed on your computer
                            screen) and pace yourself through the exam.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 11                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:02:32 PM
        xii        Introduction



                                 Do not waste time by dwelling on a question if you simply do not know the answer. Make
                             the best guess you can, mark the question for Record for Review, and return to the question if
                             time allows. The easiest questions are generally at the beginning and the end of the test; make
                             sure that you have time to read all the questions so that you can record the answers you do
                             know.




        ❚ THE EXAM
                             How Do I Enroll in the Exam?
                                 To obtain an admission ticket to a NASAA exam, you or your firm must file an application
                             form and processing fees with FINRA. To take the exam, you should make an appointment
                             with a Prometric Testing Center as far in advance as possible of the date on which you would
                             like to take the exam.
                                 You may schedule your appointment at Prometric 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, on the
                             Prometric secure website at www.prometric.com. You may also use www.prometric.com to
                             reschedule or cancel your exam, locate a test center, and get a printed confirmation of your
                             appointment. To speak with a Prometric representative by phone, please contact the Prometric
                             Contact Center at 1-800-578-6273.


                             What Should I Take to the Exam?
                                 Take one form of personal identification with your signature and photograph as issued
                             by a government agency. No personal items, food, or drink, including coffee and water, are
                             permitted inside the testing room. Personal items include, but are not limited to, pens, pagers,
                             cellular phones, watches, hats, non-medical electronic devices, outerwear, purses, and wallets.
                             Personal items must be kept in your assigned locker or returned to your car prior to the start
                             of your exam. As the testing vendor is not responsible for any personal items, they encourage
                             you to bring only your identification into the center.
                                 Erasable note boards and pens will be provided to you upon admittance to the testing
                             room. If you need additional note boards or pens, please alert your proctor. The note boards
                             and pens must be returned at the end of your exam.
                                 If you need a calculator for your testing session, please see the test center administrator.
                             You will be provided with a non-programmable, non-printing calculator.


                             Additional Trial Questions
                                 During your exam, you will see 10 extra trial questions (that is why the test is 110 ques­
                             tions long). These are potential exam-bank ques­tions being tested during the course of the
                             exam. These questions are not identified as such and are not included in your final score.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 12                                                                                                       7/15/2016 2:02:32 PM
                                                                                                           Introduction         xiii



                            Exam Results and Reports
                                 At the end of the exam, your score will be displayed, indicating whether you passed. The
                            testing center will print your results and affix their stamp as physical evidence of your passing.
                                 The next business day after your exam, your results will be mailed to your firm and to the
                            self-regulatory organization and state securities commission specified on your application.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 13                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:02:32 PM
Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 14   7/15/2016 2:02:32 PM
                           Unit 1
                           Laws, Regulations and
                           Guidelines, Including Prohibitions
                           on Unethical Business Practices
                                      This unit consists of three sessions:
                                      Session 1 Federal Securities Regulations
                                      Session 2 State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)
                                      Session 3	Federal and State Regulation of Investment Advisers and
                                                   Their Representatives
                                      In total there will be 45 questions on this material, representing 45% of
                                  the Series 66 Exam.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 1                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:02:32 PM
Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 2   7/15/2016 2:02:32 PM
                           1
                           Federal Securities
                           Regulations


                           T
                                  his session discusses federal laws that govern the issuance of corporate
                                  securities to the public and the regulation of exchanges on which
                                  they trade. The major federal legislation addressed are the Securities
                           Act of 1933, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Investment Company
                           Act of 1940, and the Insider Trading and Securities Fraud Enforcement Act
                           of 1988.
                               The Series 66 exam will include approximately 5 questions on the
                           federal regulatory structure as it pertains to the issuance of securities
                           and the registration of exchanges and broker-dealers who trade on these
                           exchanges. ■




                                                                                                             3




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 3                                                                           7/15/2016 2:02:32 PM
           OBJECTIVES


                               When you have completed this session, you should be able to:

                           ■■ compare and contrast the significant registration provisions and exemptions from the
                              Securities Act of 1933;

                           ■■ describe the registration requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 regarding
                              exchanges, broker-dealers, and agents;

                           ■■ describe the principal provisions of the Investment Company Act of 1940;

                           ■■ discuss the disclosure requirements, antifraud provisions, and prohibitions against market
                              manipulation under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;

                           ■■ list prohibitions against market manipulation; and

                           ■■ recognize the application of the Insider Trading and Securities Fraud Enforcement Act of
                              1988.




      4




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 4                                                                                         7/15/2016 2:02:34 PM
                                                                                              Session 1   Federal Securities Regulations         5




                   1. 1          THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
                                         The Securities Act of 1933 (also called the Paper Act, the Truth in Securities Act,
                                    and the Prospectus Act) regulates the issuing of corporate securities sold to the pub-
                                    lic (initial public offerings or IPOs) and through subsequent public offerings (SPOs),
                                    sometimes referred to as “SEOs,” seasoned (i.e., secondary) equity offerings of U.S. equity
                                    securities. Unless the security or transaction is exempt (covered shortly), the act requires
                                    securities issuers to make full disclosure of all material information in their registration
                                    materials in order for investors to make fully informed investment decisions.
                                         Issuer information must be disclosed to the Securities and Exchange Commission
                                    (SEC) in a registration statement and published in a prospectus. In addition, the act
                                    prohibits fraudulent activity in connection with the sale, underwriting, and distribution
                                    of securities. The act provides for both civil and criminal penalties for violations of its
                                    provisions.
                                         Even though registration under the Uniform Securities Act (the law that deals with
                                    regulation by the states) will be covered in detail in the next session, where appropri-
                                    ate, mention will be of the similarities and differences between certain federal and state
                                    definitions.


                   1. 1. 1          DEFINITIONS
                                        Definitions under the Securities Act of 1933 are similar to those you will see under
                                    state securities law under the Uniform Securities Act (described in Session 2), and, for
                                    exam purposes, those are the ones to concentrate on learning. The most important defini-
                                    tions under the Securities Act of 1933 are those that follow.


                           1. 1. 1. 1   Security
                                        The definition of a security is very broad, but here are the terms most likely to be used
                                    on your exam.
                                        The fundamental definition of a security was determined in a case heard before the
                                    U.S. Supreme Court. That case, known as the Howey Case, defined an investment con-
                                    tract as a security if it met four conditions:
                                    ■■ the investment of money;
                                    ■■ in a common enterprise (pooling);
                                    ■■ with an expectation of profits; and
                                    ■■ that results solely from the efforts of others.

                                       On the basis of Howey, a security is any of the following:
                                    ■■ Stock
                                    ■■ Bond
                                    ■■ Debenture
                                    ■■ Right or warrant
                                    ■■ Note
                                    ■■ Put, call, or other option
                                    ■■ Limited partnership interests
                                    ■■ Certificate of interest in a profit-sharing arrangement




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 5                                                                                                               7/15/2016 2:02:34 PM
     6          Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                   1. 1. 1. 2          Issuer
                                       Any person who issues or proposes to issue any security is an issuer. Most issuers are
                                   businesses, and the term issuer would also apply to a government entity.


                   1. 1. 1. 3          Underwriter
                                      Any person who has purchased from an issuer with a view to selling is an underwriter.
                                   This term does not include a brokerage firm earning a commission on a retail sale to the
                                   public.


                   1. 1. 1. 4          Person
                                       The term person is very broad and includes an individual, a corporation, a partner-
                                   ship, an association, a joint stock company, a trust, any unincorporated organization, or a
                                   governmental or political subdivision thereof. We will explain this in further detail when
                                   covering the Uniform Securities Act in the next session.


                   1. 1. 1. 5          Prospectus
                                       A prospectus is any notice, circular, letter, or communication, written or broadcast
                                   by radio or television, that offers any security for sale or confirms the sale of a security. A
                                   tombstone advertisement (one that simply identifies the security, the price, and the under-
                                   writers) is not considered a prospectus nor an offering of the subject security. The term
                                   prospectus does not include oral communications.


                   1. 1. 1. 6          Sale
                                       The term sale or sell includes a contract for sale or the disposition of a security for
                                   value. An offer to sell refers to any attempt or offer to dis­pose of a security or an interest
                                   in a security for value or a solicitation of an offer to buy a security for value.



                              ✓
                           TA K E N O T E
                                                         The sale of a security does not include:
                                                         ■■ preliminary negotiations or agreements between the issuer and
                                                            underwriter; or

                                                         ■■ a gift of securities.

                                                        Any security given or delivered with, or as a bonus on account of, any pur-
                                                    chase of securities is presumed to constitute a part of that purchase and to have
                                                    been offered and sold for value.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 6                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:02:34 PM
                                                                                                   Session 1   Federal Securities Regulations         7




                               Q
                           QUICK QUIZ 1.A         1.   The term issuer, as defined in the Securities Act of 1933, would include:
                                                         I.   a government entity issuing exempt securities.
                                                        II.   a corporation issuing securities in an exempt transaction.
                                                       III.   an antique dealer selling items from a collection of rare books.
                                                        A.    I and II
                                                        B.    II and III
                                                        C.    III only
                                                        D.    I, II, and III

                                                  2.   Under the Securities Act of 1933, which of the following is NOT a security?
                                                       A.     A convertible bond.
                                                       B.     A stock warrant.
                                                       C.     A stock right.
                                                       D.     A term life insurance policy

                                                  Quick Quiz answers can be found at the end of the session.

                                       The SEC does not approve securities registered with it, does not pass on the invest-
                                  ment merit of any security, and never guarantees the accuracy of statements in the regis-
                                  tration statement and prospectus.
                                       In its review process, the SEC merely attempts to make certain that all pertinent infor-
                                  mation is fully disclosed in the registration statement and prospectus by requiring that:
                                  ■■ the issuer file a registration statement with the SEC before securities are offered or sold
                                       in interstate commerce;
                                  ■■ a prospectus that meets the requirements of the act be provided to prospective buyers;
                                       and
                                  ■■ penalties (civil, criminal, or administrative) be imposed for violations of this act.



                   1. 2         EXEMPTED SECURITIES UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT
                                OF 1933
                                      The Securities Act of 1933 makes it unlawful to sell or deliver a secu­rity through any
                                  instrument of interstate commerce unless a registration statement is in effect. However,
                                  certain securities are exempted from the registration requirements of the act. The follow-
                                  ing issues qualify as exempted securities:
                                  ■■ Any security issued or guaranteed by the United States, any state, or any political sub-
                                      division of a state (all federal government issues and municipal securities are exempted
                                      securities)
                                  ■■ Any commercial paper that has a maturity at the time of issuance of no more than
                                      nine months (270 days), with the stipulation that the proceeds are to be used by the
                                      issuer to increase working capital and not for the purchase of fixed assets; there is no
                                      minimum denomination or rating requirement similar to that found in the Uniform
                                      Securities Act (exemptions there will be covered in Session 2)
                                  ■■ Any security issued by a person organized and operated exclusively for religious, edu-
                                      cational, benevolent, fraternal, or charitable purposes and not for pecuniary profit




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 7                                                                                                                    7/15/2016 2:02:34 PM
     8          Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                   ■■ Any interest in a railroad equipment trust (for purposes of the law, interest in a rail-
                                      road equipment trust means any interest in an equipment trust, lease, or other similar
                                      arrangement entered into, guaranteed by, or for the benefit of a regulated common
                                      carrier to finance the acquisition of rolling stock, including motive power)
                                   ■■ Any security issued by a federal or state bank, savings and loan association, building
                                      and loan association, or similar institution



                              ✓
                           TA K E N O T E
                                                         The exemption described for banks does not apply to bank holding compa-
                                                    nies. Most of the large U.S. banks today are owned by holding companies.

                                      The following issue qualifies as an exempt security under federal law but is not exempt
                                   under the Uniform Securities Act and will probably have to register with the state:
                                   ■■ Rule 147 issue: any security offered and sold only to persons resident within a single
                                      state or territory, where the issuer of such security is a person resident and doing busi-
                                      ness within such state or territory

                                       The Rule 147 exemption is available only if the entire issue is offered and sold exclu-
                                   sively to residents of a single state. If any sales take place to non-residents, the entire issue
                                   loses its exemption. The purpose of this exemption is to allow issuers to raise money on
                                   a local basis, provided the business was operating primarily within that state. The follow-
                                   ing conditions must be met in order to have a distribution qualify as an intrastate offering
                                   exempt from federal registration.
                                   ■■ The securities must be offered or sold exclusively to per­sons resident in one state;
                                       persons purchasing the securi­ties must have their principal residence within the state.
                                   ■■ For nine months from the date of the last sale by the issuer of any part of the issue,
                                       resales of any part of the issue by any person will be made only to persons resident
                                       within the same state or territory. This will satisfy requirements that the issue come to
                                       rest in the state in order to claim the exemption.
                                   ■■ At least 80% of the issuer’s gross revenue must be derived from operations within the
                                       state.
                                   ■■ At least 80% of the proceeds of the offering must be used for business purposes within
                                       the state.
                                   ■■ At least 80% of the issuer’s assets must be located within the state.



                              !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT                        Do you see why this is sometimes referred to as the “80-80-80 Rule”?




                              ✓
                           TA K E N O T E
                                                         No waivers may be granted by the purchaser agreeing to the seller’s failure
                                                    to comply with the Securities Act of 1933. It is important to remember that any
                                                    such waivers are null and void.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 8                                                                                                               7/15/2016 2:02:35 PM
                                                                                         Session 1   Federal Securities Regulations         9




                   1. 3      EXEMPTED TRANSACTIONS UNDER THE SECURITIES
                             ACT OF 1933
                                  In addition to exempting certain securities, the act also exempts:
                               ■■ transactions by any person other than an issuer, underwriter, or dealer; and
                               ■■ transactions by an issuer that do not involve a public offering (private placement
                                  under Regulation D).



                   1. 4      REGISTRATION OF SECURITIES
                                  The Securities Act of 1933 protects investors who buy new issues by:
                               ■■ requiring registration of new issues that are to be distributed interstate;
                               ■■ requiring an issuer to provide full and fair disclosure about itself and the offering;
                               ■■ requiring an issuer to make available all material information necessary for an investor
                                  to judge the issue’s merit;
                               ■■ regulating the underwriting and distribution of primary and secondary issues; and
                               ■■ providing criminal penalties for fraud in the issuance of new securities.


                   1. 4. 1     THE REGISTRATION STATEMENT
                                    An issuer must file a registration statement with the SEC disclosing material informa-
                               tion about the issue. The registration statement must be signed by the principal executive
                               officer (usually designated the CEO), the principal financial officer (usually designated the
                               CFO), and a majority of the board of directors.
                                    All of the signers are subject to criminal and civil penalties for willful omissions and
                               mis­statements of material facts. The information required in the registration statement
                               may be summarized as follows:
                               ■■ Purpose of issue
                               ■■ Public offering price (anticipated range)
                               ■■ Underwriter’s commissions or discounts
                               ■■ Promotion expenses
                               ■■ Expected use of the net proceeds of the issue to the company
                               ■■ Balance sheet
                               ■■ Earnings statements for the last three years
                               ■■ Names, addresses, and bios of officers, directors, underwriters, and stockholders own-
                                    ing more than 10% of the outstanding stock (i.e., control persons)
                               ■■ Copy of underwriting agreements
                               ■■ Copies of articles of incorporation




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 9                                                                                                          7/15/2016 2:02:35 PM
     10         Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




             1. 4. 2             THE COOLING-OFF PERIOD
                                     After the issuer files a registration statement with the SEC, a 20-day cooling-off period
                                 begins. After the issuer (with the underwriter’s assistance) files with the SEC for registra-
                                 tion of the securities, the cooling-off period begins before the registration becomes effec-
                                 tive. The registration can become effective as early as 20 calendar days after the date the
                                 SEC has received it. In practice, however, the cooling-off period is seldom the minimum
                                 20 days; the SEC usually takes longer to clear registration statements.
                                                                      The Three Phases of an Underwriting


                                        Issuer files registration                                              Effective date—offering
                                        statement with the SEC                Cooling-off period               period may begin




                                         Prior to the filing of the       No one can solicit sales     Sales can now be solicited,
                                         registration statement,          during the cooling-off       but the firm must use a
                                         no sales can be solicited        period, but indications of   final prospectus.
                                         and no prospectus can            interest can be solicited
                                         circulate.                       with a red herring.



                                     The cooling-off period can last several months because of the time it takes to make
                                 additions and corrections. If the SEC finds something is not stated properly, is missing,
                                 or needs further explanation, a deficiency letter will be sent describing what needs to
                                 be done in order for the registration to proceed. The SEC sometimes issues a stop order,
                                 which demands that all underwriting activities cease. This may be done if requirements of
                                 the 1933 Act have not been met or if fraud is suspected. The SEC may issue a stop order
                                 to suspend the effectiveness of the registration even after the effective registration date.
                                 The SEC will take this action if they feel the registration state­ment includes any untrue
                                 statement of a material fact. The SEC may subpoena the issuing corporation’s records to
                                 determine whether a stop order is necessary.


             1. 4. 3             PRELIMINARY (RED HERRING) PROSPECTUS
                                     The preliminary prospectus must be made available to any prospective purchaser who
                                 expresses interest in the security from the time the issue is filed with the SEC until it
                                 becomes publicly available for sale, the effective date (the previously described cooling-off
                                 period).
                                     A red herring is used to acquaint investors with essential facts concern­ing the new
                                 issue. It is also used to solicit indications of buyer interest. However, it cannot be used:
                                 ■■ as a confirmation of sale;
                                 ■■ in place of a registration statement; or
                                 ■■ to declare the final public offering price.

                                     However, along with stating the expected number of shares to be sold, a bona fide
                                 estimate of the price range per share is required to be included.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 10                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:02:35 PM
                                                                                                  Session 1   Federal Securities Regulations        11




                                         Under no circumstances may a broker-dealer or one of its agents accept money or
                                    orders prior to the effective date.
                                         A communication sent or delivered to any potential investor that is accompanied or
                                    preceded by a preliminary prospectus, including a price range where required by rule, may
                                    solicit from the recipient of the communication a non-binding indication as to whether
                                    she might be interested in the security, if the communication contains substantially the
                                    following statement:

                                            No offer to buy the securities can be accepted and no part of the purchase price
                                        can be received until the registration statement has become effective, and any such
                                        offer may be withdrawn or revoked, without obligation or commitment of any kind,
                                        at any time prior to notice of its acceptance given after the effective date.

                                       The term red herring was given to the preliminary prospectus because the front page
                                    contains the following statement printed in red ink.

                                            A Registration Statement relating to these securities has been filed with the
                                        Securities and Exchange Commission but has not yet become effective. Information
                                        contained herein is subject to completion or amendment. These securities may not
                                        be sold nor may offers to buy be accepted prior to the time the Registration State-
                                        ment becomes effective.

                                        No person connected with the offering is allowed to make marks on a preliminary
                                    prospectus under any circumstances. They cannot write short summaries or reviews on the
                                    preliminary prospectus. The preliminary prospectus must be given to customers without
                                    any alterations because, as stated above, information is subject to change.



                               ✓
                            TA K E N O T E
                                                          Two items missing from the preliminary prospectus (red herring) are the pub-
                                                    lic offering price (expected range may be shown) and the effective date.




                                 !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT                  During the cooling-off period, underwriters may not:
                                                        ■■ take orders; or

                                                        ■■ distribute sales literature or advertising material.
                                                        However, they may:
                                                        ■■ take indications of interest;

                                                        ■■ distribute preliminary prospectuses; or

                                                        ■■ publish tombstone advertisements to provide information about the
                                                           potential availability of the securities.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 11                                                                                                                  7/15/2016 2:02:35 PM
     12         Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




             1. 4. 4             THE FINAL (EFFECTIVE) PROSPECTUS
                                      A registration statement is normally a very long and complex document for an inves-
                                 tor to read. The act requires the preparation of a shorter document called a prospectus.
                                 The prospectus summarizes the infor­mation contained in the registration statement. It
                                 must contain all the material facts in the registration statement, but in shorter form. The
                                 pro­spectus must be given to every person who purchases no later than with confirmation
                                 of the sale. The purpose of a prospectus is to provide the investor with adequate informa-
                                 tion to analyze the investment merits of the security. Even if an investor does not intend to
                                 read a prospectus, it still must be given to him. It is unlawful for a company to sell securi-
                                 ties before the effective date of the registra­tion statement.


                   1. 4. 4. 1         Rule 482 (Omitting) Prospectus
                                     There is a specific SEC rule permitting investment companies to use what is known
                                 as an omitting prospectus. The rule is SEC Rule 482, which describes mutual fund adver-
                                 tisements. To comply with this rule, an omitting prospectus must meet the following
                                 conditions.
                                 ■■ Any information in the advertisement must be taken substantially from the regular
                                     prospectus.
                                 ■■ The advertisement must state conspicuously from whom a prospectus may be obtained.
                                 ■■ The advertisement must urge investors to read the prospectus carefully before invest-
                                     ing.
                                 ■■ Any past performance data, such as yields or return, that are quoted in the advertise-
                                     ment must be accompanied by appropriate dis­claimers and disclosures of load, if any.
                                 ■■ The advertisement cannot be used to purchase the shares; purchase may be made only
                                     via an application found in the prospectus.


             1. 4. 5             EFFECTIVE DATE OF REGISTRATION STATEMENT
                                     On the date a registration statement becomes effective, securities may be sold to the
                                 public by the investment bankers.
                                     A copy of the final (effective) prospectus must be delivered to each pur­chaser. This is
                                 normally accomplished by including the prospectus along with a confirmation of the trade,
                                 although it would certainly be permitted to deliver it earlier. Additional sales literature
                                 may be used by the firm as long as the sales literature is preceded or accompanied by a pro-
                                 spectus. Just as with a preliminary prospectus, no markings of any kind may be placed on
                                 the prospectus. No areas of special interest may be highlighted or have attention drawn to
                                 them by any other method. Money may be accepted by the broker-dealer from customers
                                 at this time.
                                     Every prospectus always has the following statement in bold print on the front page.

                                         THESE SECURITIES HAVE NOT BEEN APPROVED OR DISAPPROVED
                                      BY THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION NOR HAS THE
                                      COMMISSION PASSED UPON THE ACCURACY OR ADEQUACY OF THIS
                                      PROSPECTUS. ANY REPRESENTATION TO THE CONTRARY IS A CRIMI-
                                      NAL OFFENSE.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 12                                                                                                         7/15/2016 2:02:35 PM
                                                                                         Session 1   Federal Securities Regulations        13




                                This statement is known as the SEC disclaimer and should be self-explanatory.
                                If an underwriter pays for the publication of any description of a security offered (other
                             than a tombstone), the act requires that the publisher disclose the fact that payment was
                             made and the amount of the pay­ment.


                   1. 4. 6   LIABILITIES UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
                                 The Securities Act of 1933 provides penalties for false and mislead­ing statements con-
                             tained in the registration statement or prospectus. If misrepresentations were intentionally
                             made, the individuals responsible are subject to criminal prosecution. The civil liabilities
                             codes allow a purchaser of a security under a registration statement containing a false
                             statement of a material fact or omission of a material fact to sue:
                             ■■ every person who signed the registration form;
                             ■■ all directors of the issuer;
                             ■■ attorneys;
                             ■■ accountants;
                             ■■ appraisers or other experts;
                             ■■ underwriters; and
                             ■■ parent companies.

                                 A person would be exempt from liability if he could prove he had reasonable grounds
                             to believe, after investigation, that the statements contained in the registration statement
                             are accurate. The statute of limitations for bringing action is the earlier of one year after
                             discovery of the violation or three years after the date of the action. Compare this statute
                             with the stat­ute of limitations in Session 2, which is almost the same, except that the time
                             limit is two years after discovery. This is one of the rare cases where the time period in the
                             Uniform Securities Act is greater than that in federal law.
                                 Other powers of the SEC include the ability to:
                             ■■ make, amend, and rescind rules;
                             ■■ administer oaths;
                             ■■ subpoena witnesses and other records for evidence;
                             ■■ seek injunctions or restraining orders in the appropriate court; and
                             ■■ turn over evidence to the attorney general of the United States for possible criminal
                                 prosecution.

                                 If a person is found guilty in court, civil penalties can be severe, including a substantial
                             fine as well as being barred from serving as an officer or director of a public corporation for
                             a number of years. If the case involves criminal prosecution, the penalties may include a
                             fine, a prison term, or both.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 13                                                                                                         7/15/2016 2:02:35 PM
     14         Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




             1. 5           SEC REGULATION D (PRIVATE PLACEMENT
                            EXEMPTION) RULE 506
                                     In a major effort aimed at facilitating the capital formation needs of small businesses,
                                 the SEC adopted Regulation D, the private placement exempt transaction. Securities
                                 offered and sold in compliance with Regulation D are exempt from registration with the
                                 SEC and, as we will learn in the next session, are considered federal covered securities
                                 exempt from registration on the state level as well. Our primary concern is with SEC Rule
                                 506, a private placement where there is no dollar limit on the amount sold.
                                     The Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or JOBS Act, made several impor-
                                 tant changes to Rule 506 of Regulation D. These changes became effective September 23,
                                 2013. It is unlikely that the new information will be tested for some time, but when it is,
                                 we will post that to the Exam-tips & Contents Updates and revise our practice questions.
                                     Rule 506 now consists of two sections, 506(b) and 506(c). A company seeking to
                                 raise capital through a private placement under Rule 506(b) can sell the offering to an
                                 unlimited number of accredited inves­tors (defined below) and up to 35 non-accredited
                                 investors. In addition, no advertising may be done on behalf of the offering.
                                     On the other hand, Section 506(c) permits the offering to be advertised. There are
                                 two primary (and interrelated) requirements in order to do this.
                                 ■■ All purchasers are accredited investors, or the issuer reasonably believes that they are
                                     accredited investors.
                                 ■■ The issuer takes reasonable steps to verify that all purchasers are accredited investors,
                                     which could include reviewing documentation, such as W-2s, tax returns, bank and
                                     brokerage statements, credit reports and the like.

                                      An issuer can elect to make a typical Rule 506 offering without general solicitation
                                 or advertising under Section 506(b) in order to include non-accredited investors in the
                                 offering or to avoid the heightened verification procedures.
                                      The JOBS Act also included a provision that an issuer is disqualified from using
                                 Rule 506 under their “bad actor,” sometimes called “bad boy,” provisions. Simply, if the
                                 issuer or other relevant persons, (such as underwriters, directors, officers, or significant
                                 shareholders of the issuer) have been convicted of securities fraud or certain other securi-
                                 ties violations, an offering under Rule 506 may not take place.


             1. 5. 1             SEC RULE 501 ACCREDITED INVESTORS
                                      SEC Rule 501 classifies an accredited investor for the purposes of Regulation D into
                                 separate categories. Investors are considered to be accredited under the rule only if the
                                 issuer or any person acting on the issuer’s behalf has reasonable grounds to believe, and
                                 does believe after reasonable inquiry, that the investors are included in one of the catego-
                                 ries in the definition.
                                      The separate categories of accredited investors under Regulation D include:
                                 ■■ a bank, insurance company, or registered investment company;
                                 ■■ an employee benefit plan if a bank, insurance company, or registered investment
                                      adviser makes the investment decisions, or if the plan has total assets in excess of
                                      $5 million;




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 14                                                                                                       7/15/2016 2:02:35 PM
                                                                                                 Session 1   Federal Securities Regulations        15




                                    ■■ a charitable organization, corporation, or partnership with assets exceeding $5 mil-
                                       lion;
                                    ■■ directors, executive officers, and general partners of the issuer;
                                    ■■ any natural person whose individual net worth, or joint net worth with that person’s
                                       spouse, excluding the net equity in his primary residence, exceeds $1 million at the
                                       time of his purchase;
                                    ■■ any natural person who had an individual income in excess of $200,000 in each of the
                                       two most recent years or joint income with that person’s spouse in excess of $300,000
                                       in each of those years and has a reasonable expectation of reaching the same income
                                       level in the current year; and
                                    ■■ entities made up of accredited investors.

                                        The term accredited investor applies only to private placements. The dollar amount of
                                    the net worth requirement has not changed since the introduction of this rule in 1982, but
                                    particularly due to increased real estate values, the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010 declared that
                                    the net worth had to exclude the net equity in the primary residence. A favorite phrase of
                                    the regulators is, “eligibility does not equal suitability.” Therefore, just because one meets
                                    the financial requirements of an accred­ited investor does not mean that suitability stan-
                                    dards are ignored.



                                 !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                         Can assets in an account or property held jointly with another person who
                                                    is not the purchaser’s spouse be included in determining whether the purchaser
                                                    satisfies the net worth test in Rule 501?
                                                         Answer: Yes, assets in an account or property held jointly with a person who
                                                    is not the purchaser’s spouse may be included in the calculation for the net worth
                                                    test, but only to the extent of his or her percentage ownership of the account or
                                                    property.




                               ✓
                            TA K E N O T E
                                                        For purposes of Rule 506(b), in counting the number of non-accredited
                                                    investors, the following rules apply:
                                                        ■■ Any relative, spouse or relative of the spouse of a purchaser who has the
                                                           same primary residence as the purchaser counts as a single purchaser;
                                                           and

                                                        ■■ A corporation, partnership, or other entity is counted as one purchaser.
                                                           If, however, the entity was organized for the purpose of acquiring the
                                                           securities, each owner will be counted separately.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 15                                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:02:35 PM
     16         Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                            Q
                   QUICK QUIZ 1.B                   1.   Which of the following statements about accredited investors is TRUE?
                                                         A. Taxpayers who report an income in excess of $200,000 on a joint return
                                                            in each of the last two years and who reasonably expect the same for
                                                            the current year are included in the definition.
                                                         B. An officer, director, or greater than 10% shareholder of any company
                                                            listed on the NYSE would be considered an accredited investor for pur-
                                                            poses of acquiring a private placement your firm is selling.
                                                         C. The term includes an employee benefit plan with assets in excess of
                                                            $2 million.
                                                         D. Purchases of securities by accredited investors do not count toward the
                                                            35‑investor limitation found in Rule 506(b) of Regulation D.



             1. 5. 2             FORM D
                                     What is Form D, and when does it have to be filed? Under Rule 503 of Regulation D,
                                 an issuer that is issuing securities in reliance on Regulation D must file Form D with
                                 the SEC no later than 15 days after the first sale (defined as the time when an investor
                                 has delivered an irrevocable commitment to invest) of securities in the offering. Form D
                                 requires certain basic information about the issuer and the offering, including total size of
                                 the offering, amount sold to date, the use of proceeds, and the names of any persons paid
                                 commissions.



                            ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                        One other point worth mentioning is that there is a proposal that the Form
                                                    D be filed 15 days prior to the first sale for those offerings made under 506(c)
                                                    rather than the 15 days after as is the case with 506(b) offerings.



             1. 5. 3             RESTRICTED SECURITIES
                                     Restricted securities are unregistered securities purchased by an investor in a private
                                 placement and are generally restricted from resale for a stated period of time. They are also
                                 called letter securities (or legend securities), which refers to the fact that purchasers must
                                 sign an investment letter attesting to their under­standing of the restriction upon resale
                                 and to the legend placed on the certificates indicating restriction upon resale.


                   1. 5. 3. 1         Control Person
                                     A corporate director, officer, greater than 10% voting stockholder, or the spouse of any
                                 of the preceding is a control person. They are loosely referred to as insiders or affiliates
                                 because of their unique status within the issuer.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 16                                                                                                              7/15/2016 2:02:35 PM
                                                                                                  Session 1   Federal Securities Regulations        17




                        1. 5. 3. 2   Control Stock
                                     Control stock is stock held by a control person. What makes it control stock is who
                                 owns it, not how it was acquired. In general, purchases and sales of control stock must be
                                 reported to the SEC.


                        1. 5. 3. 3   Nonaffiliate
                                    An investor who is not a control person and has no other affiliation with the issuer
                                 other than as an owner of securities is a nonaffiliate.


                        1. 5. 3. 4   SEC Rule 144 (Sale of Restricted and Control Securities)
                                     SEC Rule 144 was created so that certain resales of already existing securities could be
                                 made without having to file a com­plete registration statement with the SEC. The time and
                                 money involved in having to file such a registration are usually so prohibitive as to make it
                                 uneconomical for the individual seller. In almost all cases, those who wish to sell control
                                 stock or restricted stock must do so by filing a Form 144.




                             Q
                        QUICK QUIZ 1.C            1.   A man owns 15% of the stock of a company. His wife owns 5% of the stock
                                                       of the same company. If the wife wishes to sell the stock she owns, which of
                                                       the following statements are TRUE?
                                                         I.   Both the husband and the wife are affiliates.
                                                        II.   He is an affiliate, but she is not.
                                                       III.   She must file under Rule 144.
                                                       IV.    She does not have to file under Rule 144.
                                                       A.     I and III
                                                       B.     I and IV
                                                       C.     II and III
                                                       D.     II and IV




                   1. 6       THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                                      The Securities Exchange Act created the SEC. The act grants the SEC authority over
                                 all aspects of the securities industry, including the power to register, regulate, and oversee
                                 brokerage firms, transfer agents, and clearing agencies as well as the nation’s securities self-
                                 regulatory organizations (SROs).
                                      The various stock exchanges, such as the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), Chicago
                                 Stock Exchange (CHX), and Nasdaq, are SROs. The largest SRO is FINRA, the organiza-
                                 tion to which virtually all broker-dealers belong.
                                      The act also identifies and prohibits certain types of conduct in the markets and con-
                                 fers to the SEC disciplinary powers over regulated entities and the persons associated with
                                 them.
                                      The act also empowers the SEC to require periodic reporting of information by com-
                                 panies with publicly traded securities.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 17                                                                                                                  7/15/2016 2:02:35 PM
     18         Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




             1. 6. 1             THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                                 (SEC)
                                     The SEC consists of five people, with one serving as chair, appointed by the president
                                 with the advice and consent of the Senate. The SEC administrates all federal laws regulat-
                                 ing the securities industry except those regulating the extension of credit. SEC commis-
                                 sioners are appointed for five-year terms and may have no other business or employment
                                 other than this job. The terms are stag­gered so that a new commissioner is appointed each
                                 year. To minimize political shenanigans, no more than three of the five commissioners may
                                 belong to the same party. Therefore, if there are three Republicans and two Democrats and
                                 a Democrat’s term expires, the president must appoint another Democrat. Because of the
                                 sensitive nature of the employment, SEC commissioners may not engage in any personal
                                 secu­rities transactions other than in U.S. government issues. All securities positions they
                                 had when appointed are placed into a blind trust.


             1. 6. 2             DEFINITIONS
                                     The act defines many important terms, such as broker, dealer, and exchange. Many of
                                 these terms are also used in the Uniform Securities Act, which is model legislation that
                                 the states use to draft their securities laws.


                   1. 6. 2. 1         Broker
                                      A broker is any person engaged in the business of effecting transac­tions in securities
                                 for the account of others. Banks are not included in this definition.


                   1. 6. 2. 2         Dealer
                                      A dealer is any person regularly engaged in the business of buying and selling securi-
                                 ties for his own account. Banks, insurance companies, investment companies, and any
                                 persons engaged in investing, reinvesting, or trading in securities for their own account,
                                 either individually or in some fiduciary capacity, but not as part of a regular business, are
                                 not included in this definition.


                   1. 6. 2. 3         Associated Person
                                     A person associated with a broker-dealer is any partner, officer, or director of the bro-
                                 ker-dealer (or any person performing similar functions) or any person directly or indirectly
                                 controlling or controlled by the broker-dealer, including any employees of the broker-
                                 dealer, except that any person associated with a broker or dealer whose functions are solely
                                 clerical or ministerial, shall not be included in the meaning of the term.



                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                        Even “outside” directors or partners whose only connection to the firm is the
                                                    contribution of capital are considered associated persons of the broker-dealer.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 18                                                                                                               7/15/2016 2:02:35 PM
                                                                                         Session 1   Federal Securities Regulations        19




                        1. 6. 2. 4   Market Maker
                                     A market maker is a dealer who holds himself out as being willing to buy and sell a
                                 particular security for his own account and on a regular or continuous basis. This holding
                                 out may be by entering quotations in an interdealer communications system or otherwise.


                        1. 6. 2. 5   Securities Information Processor
                                    A securities information processor (SIP) is any person engaged in the business of:
                                 ■■ collecting, processing, or preparing for distribution or publication information with
                                    respect to transactions in, or quotations for, any nonexempt security; or
                                 ■■ distributing or publishing (whether by means of a ticker tape, a communications net-
                                    work, a terminal display device, or otherwise), on a current and continuing basis,
                                    information with respect to such transactions or quotations.

                                    Some of the obvious securities information processors are:
                                 ■■ The Consolidated Ticker Tape;
                                 ■■ OPRA (Options Price Reporting Authority);
                                 ■■ SIAC (Securities Industry Automation Corporation); and
                                 ■■ The OTC Markets Group Inc. (owners of OTC Link, formerly known as the Pink
                                    Sheets).

                                    The term securities information processor does not include:
                                 ■■ a bona fide newspaper, news magazine, or business or finan­cial publication of general
                                    or regular circulation, such as The Wall Street Journal;
                                 ■■ any SRO;
                                 ■■ any bank or broker-dealer supplying quotation and transaction information as part of
                                    its customary banking or brokerage business; or
                                 ■■ any common carrier subject to the jurisdiction of the Federal Communications Com-
                                    mission or a state commission (radio and television stations).


                        1. 6. 2. 6   Transfer Agent
                                    A transfer agent is any person who engages on behalf of an issuer of securities in:
                                 ■■ countersigning the certificates;
                                 ■■ registering the transfer of the issuer’s securities;
                                 ■■ exchanging or converting the issuer’s securities; and
                                 ■■ transferring record ownership of securities by bookkeeping entry without physical issu-
                                    ance of securities certificates.

                                    The term transfer agent does not include:
                                 ■■ any insurance company or separate account that performs these functions solely with
                                    respect to variable annuity con­tracts or variable life policies that it issues; or
                                 ■■ any registered clearing agency (e.g., Options Clearing Corporation) that performs
                                    these functions solely with respect to options contracts that it issues.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 19                                                                                                         7/15/2016 2:02:35 PM
     20         Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                   1. 6. 2. 7         Exchange
                                     An exchange is an organization, association, or group of persons provid­ing a mar-
                                 ketplace or facilities for bringing together purchasers and sell­ers of securities. The term
                                 includes the marketplace and the facilities.
                                     Exchanges must be registered. Registration is accomplished by filing an applica-
                                 tion with the SEC, which will be accepted or denied within 90 days of application. The
                                 exchange must be prepared to demon­strate the following.
                                 ■■ Formation of the exchange is in the public interest.
                                 ■■ The exchange will have compliance enforcement ability—that is, the ability to
                                     enforce both the SEC’s and its own rules.
                                 ■■ The board of directors will be represented by at least one member representing the
                                     investing public and at least one member representing listed companies. The bal-
                                     ance of the board is usually made up of directors representing the mem­bership of the
                                     exchange.
                                 ■■ Membership in the exchange may only be offered to registered broker-dealers or asso-
                                     ciated persons.


                   1. 6. 2. 8         Self-Regulatory Organization
                                     A self-regulatory organization (SRO) is a national securities exchange or a reg­istered
                                 securities association, such as FINRA.


                   1. 6. 2. 9         Security
                                    The definition of a security is similar to the definition given in the Securities Act of
                                 1933 and in the Uniform Securities Act, which will be discussed in Session 2.


                   1. 6. 2. 10 Equity Security
                                     Equity security is defined as a stock or similar security. Stock means common or pre-
                                 ferred stock. Similar security would include:
                                 ■■ a security convertible into stock (e.g., convertible bond);
                                 ■■ any security with a warrant or right attached to subscribe to or buy stock (e.g., a bond
                                     with warrants attached); and
                                 ■■ any warrant or right to purchase stock.


                   1. 6. 2. 11 Municipal Securities
                                     Municipal securities are securities that are direct obliga­tions of, or obligations guar-
                                 anteed as to principal or interest by, a state or any political subdivision thereof, or any
                                 agent or instrumentality of a state or any political subdivision thereof. The most common
                                 example of municipal securities are municipal bonds.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 20                                                                                                        7/15/2016 2:02:35 PM
                                                                                           Session 1   Federal Securities Regulations        21




                        1. 6. 2. 12 Government Securities
                                     Government securities are securities that are direct obligations of, or obligations guar-
                                 anteed as to principal or interest by, the U.S. government. The term also includes govern-
                                 ment agency securi­ties, such as those issued by the Federal National Mortgage Association
                                 (Fannie Mae).


                        1. 6. 2. 13 Statutory Disqualification
                                      A person is subject to a statutory disqualification with respect to mem­bership or par-
                                 ticipation in, or association with a member of, an SRO if that person:
                                 ■■ has been or is expelled or suspended from membership or being associated with a
                                      member of any SRO, commodities market, or futures trading association;
                                 ■■ is subject to an order of the SEC or other appropriate regulatory agency denying, sus-
                                      pending for a period not exceeding 12 months, or revoking his registration as a broker-
                                      dealer, or barring or suspending for a period not exceeding 12 months his association
                                      with a broker or dealer;
                                 ■■ by his conduct while associated with a broker or dealer, has been found to be a cause
                                      of any effective suspension, expulsion, or order of the type described in the two points
                                      above;
                                 ■■ has associated with any person who is known, or with the exercise of reasonable care
                                      should be known, to him to be a person described by one of the three points above;
                                 ■■ has been convicted within the past 10 years of a securities violation or a misdemeanor
                                      involving finance or dishonesty, bribery, embezzlement, forgery, theft, and so forth, or
                                      any felony;
                                 ■■ is subject to a temporary or permanent injunction from a competent court of jurisdic-
                                      tion prohibiting him from engaging in any phase of the securities business;
                                 ■■ has willfully violated any federal securities law; or
                                 ■■ has made a false or misleading statement in any filing with information requested by
                                      an SRO (omitting important facts is cause as well).

                                     Loss of a civil lawsuit, even involving securities, is not a cause for statutory
                                 disqualification.
                                     The effect of statutory disqualification is a prohibition against association of any kind
                                 with a member firm or any investment adviser.


                        1. 6. 2. 14 Appropriate Regulatory Authority
                                    The SEC is the appropriate regula­tory agency for the following:
                                 ■■ National securities exchanges
                                 ■■ Registered securities associations
                                 ■■ Members of an exchange or association
                                 ■■ Persons associated with a member
                                 ■■ Applicants to become a member or person associated with a member




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 21                                                                                                           7/15/2016 2:02:36 PM
     22         Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                     The SEC is also the appropriate regulatory agency for the Municipal Securities
                                 Rulemaking Board (MSRB). However, the SEC has no jurisdiction over banks and other
                                 similar financial institu­tions that are regulated by their functional regulators, such as the
                                 Office of the Controller of the Currency (not tested).



                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         One of the provisions of the Securities Exchange Act was that the board of
                                                    governors of the Federal Reserve was authorized by the act to establish regula-
                                                    tions governing the use of credit for the purchase or carrying of securities. The
                                                    Federal Reserve has issued Regulation T covering such credit.


                   1. 6. 2. 15 Investment Discretion
                                      A discretionary account is an account set up with preapproved authority for a securi-
                                 ties professional to make transactions without having to ask for specific approval.
                                      Discretion is defined as the authority to decide:
                                 ■■ which security;
                                 ■■ the number of shares or units; or
                                 ■■ whether to buy or sell.



                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         Discretion does not apply to decisions regarding the timing of an investment
                                                    or the price at which it is acquired.




                            *
                            EXAMPLE                     An order from a customer worded “Buy 100 shares of ABC for my account
                                                    whenever you think the price is right” is not a discretionary order because the cli-
                                                    ent has specified the action (buy), the amount (100 shares) and the asset (ABC).
                                                    Time and/or price are not considered discretion.




                              !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                        To identify a discretionary order, try this method: an order is discretionary if
                                                    any one of the three A’s is missing. The three A’s are:
                                                         ■■ Activity;

                                                         ■■ Amount; and

                                                         ■■ Asset.


                                 1. 6. 2. 15. 1 Discretion—Time and/or Price
                                     Both state and federal law prohibit the exercise of any discretionary power by a broker-
                                 dealer or agent in a customer’s account unless the customer has given prior written autho-




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 22                                                                                                                  7/15/2016 2:02:36 PM
                                                                                               Session 1   Federal Securities Regulations        23




                                rization (a power of attorney/trading authorization) to a stated individual or individuals
                                and the account has been accepted by the member firm, as evidenced in writing by the
                                firm.
                                     There is an exception to this requirement that applies to the exercise of time and price
                                discretion—which is discretion orally granted by the customer to purchase or sell a specific
                                amount of a particular security (e.g., “Buy 100 shares of ABCD and get the best price you
                                can”).
                                     An oral grant of time and price discretion is limited to the end of the business day
                                on which the customer grants it. An extension of such time and price discretion requires
                                explicit signed and dated customer instructions. Any exercise of time and price discretion
                                must be reflected on the order ticket (as is the case with regular discretion).
                                     Why is it necessary to have written instructions if the discretion is to carry beyond
                                the date of the order? The concept of time and price discretion has been subject to abuse
                                and/or misunderstanding. At one time, there was no time limit placed on a grant of oral
                                time and price discretion by a customer. This became problematic in instances where an
                                agent was granted such discretion but did not exercise it for an extended period of time,
                                sometimes several weeks. This led to claims of unauthorized trading by customers who
                                may have forgotten that they granted the discretion, or who assumed it was not valid for
                                such an extended period of time. The written extension requirement under the rules is
                                intended to prevent such misunderstandings.


                        1. 6. 2. 16 Discretionary Authority
                                     Customers can give discretionary power over their account(s) only by filing a written
                                trading authorization or a limited power of attorney with the broker-dealer. No discretion-
                                ary transactions can take place without this document on file. Once authorization is given,
                                the firm is legally empowered to make trading decisions for the account, although the
                                customer may also continue to enter orders.
                                     In addition to requiring the proper documentation, discretionary accounts are subject
                                to the following rules.
                                ■■ Each discretionary order must be identified as such when it is entered for execution.
                                ■■ An officer or a partner of the firm must approve each order promptly and in writing,
                                     not necessarily before order entry.
                                ■■ A record must be kept of all transactions.
                                ■■ No excessive trading may occur in the account when considering the clients financial
                                     resources and investment objectives.
                                ■■ To safeguard against the possibility of churning, a designated supervisor or manager
                                     must review all trading activity frequently and systematically.




                            Q
                        QUICK QUIZ 1.D          1.   An agent receives instructions from a client to buy 100 shares of KAPCO
                                                     common stock at what the agent thinks is the best price. Two days later, the
                                                     agent enters the order. In this case, the agent has
                                                     A.   acted appropriately
                                                     B.   acted inappropriately
                                                     C.   failed to follow the customer’s instructions
                                                     D.   potentially become subject to statutory disqualification




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 23                                                                                                               7/15/2016 2:02:36 PM
     24         Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                                    2.   Alice Allison is the president of Podunk University and sits on the board of
                                                         directors of KAPCO Securities, a broker-dealer registered with the SEC. Presi-
                                                         dent Allison
                                                         A.   would be considered an associated person of KAPCO
                                                         B.   would not be considered an associated person of KAPCO
                                                         C.   would be required to register as an agent of KAPCO
                                                         D.   must resign her position at Podunk University in order to remain on
                                                              KAPCO’s board

                                                    3.   A securities order that is initiated by a client is what type of order?
                                                         A.   Nondiscretionary
                                                         B.   Unsolicited
                                                         C.   Discretionary
                                                         D.   Solicited



             1. 6. 3             REGISTRATION UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
                                 ACT OF 1934
                                     The Securities Exchange Act of 1934 requires many different groups and organizations
                                 to register with the SEC. Among them are:
                                 ■■ brokers and dealers operating in interstate commerce, including those operating on
                                     exchanges and in the over-the-counter mar­kets (broker-dealers file application for
                                     membership on Form BD, and the SEC has 45 days to accept or deny the registration);
                                 ■■ securities exchanges (as mentioned earlier, the SEC has 90 days to accept or deny
                                     registration of an exchange);
                                 ■■ national securities associations, such as FINRA and the MSRB (the Maloney Act
                                     of 1938 amended the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and led to the creation of
                                     the NASD, which became FINRA, and the MSRB was created out of the Securities
                                     Amendments Act of 1975, which means that both associations were created by the
                                     Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended);
                                 ■■ corporations with listed securities (a security may be regis­tered on a national securities
                                     exchange by the issuer filing an application with the exchange and filing with the SEC
                                     as well). The application for registration must include:
                                      —— the organization, the financial structure, and nature of the business,
                                      —— the terms, position, rights, and privileges of the different classes of outstanding
                                         securities,
                                      —— the terms on which their securities are to be, and during the preceding three years
                                         have been, offered to the public,
                                      —— the directors, officers, and underwriters, and each security holder of record holding
                                         more than 10% of any class of equity security of the issuer, including their remu-
                                         neration and their interests in the securities and their material con­tracts with the
                                         issuer and any person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by the issuer,
                                      —— certified balance sheets for the previous three fiscal years pre­pared by independent
                                         public accountants, and
                                      —— certified profit and loss statements for the preceding three fiscal years prepared by
                                         independent accountants; and




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 24                                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:02:36 PM
                                                                                            Session 1   Federal Securities Regulations        25




                                 ■■ securities Information Processors (SIPs); and
                                 ■■ transfer agents


                   1. 6. 4       INSIDER TRANSACTIONS UNDER THE SECURITIES
                                 EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                                     This act regulates securities transactions by insiders who generally own large amounts
                                 of their companies’ stock. Certain persons must file a statement with the SEC concerning
                                 the amount of equity securities owned. These persons are:
                                 ■■ every person who is directly or indirectly the beneficial owner of more than 10% of
                                     any class of equity security (other than exempt securities) registered on a national
                                     securities exchange; and
                                 ■■ officers or directors of the issuers of such securities.

                                     The SEC must be notified of any changes in the ownership of such securities. Such
                                 individuals are prohibited from selling short and from engaging in short-term transactions,
                                 usually called short-swing profits. These are defined as gains made when both the purchase
                                 and sale take place within a 6-month period. Stockholders are permitted to sue to recover
                                 any short-term profits improperly realized by such insiders. Exercise of stock options is not
                                 prohibited.


                        1. 6. 4. 1   Schedule 13D Filings
                                     Section 13(d)—5% Beneficial Owners generally requires a beneficial owner of more
                                 than 5% of a class of equity securities registered under the Securities Exchange Act of
                                 1934 (equity securities of publicly traded companies) to file a report with the issuer, SEC,
                                 and the securities markets where those securities trade within 10 days of any transaction
                                 that results in beneficial ownership of more than 5%. The reporting requirement of this
                                 section is fulfilled by filing Schedule 13D.
                                     Schedule 13D requires information about the acquiring person, including:
                                 ■■ the name and background of the person or entity (including partners, executive offi-
                                     cers, directors, and controlling persons);
                                 ■■ the origin of the money for the acquisition of the securi­ties; and
                                 ■■ the purpose of acquiring the securities, such as to acquire control of the business of
                                     the issuer, and plans or pro­posals that such persons may have to liquidate the issuer, to
                                     sell its assets to or merge it with any other persons, or to make any other change to its
                                     business or corporate structure.


                        1. 6. 4. 2   Section 13(f) Filings
                                     Section 13(f) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 requires that any institutional
                                 investment man­ager that uses the mail or any means or instrumentality of interstate com-
                                 merce in the course of its business as a institutional investment man­ager, and that exer-
                                 cises investment discretion over an equity portfolio with a market value on the last trading
                                 day in any of the preceding 12 months of $100 million or more in 13(f) securities, must file
                                 a Form 13F with the SEC quarterly, within 45 days of the end of each quarter.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 25                                                                                                            7/15/2016 2:02:36 PM
     26         Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                     The purpose of this rule is to require institutional investment managers who exercise
                                 investment discretion over accounts holding certain levels of securities to make periodic
                                 public disclosures of significant portfolio holdings.

                                 1. 6. 4. 2. 1 What are 13(f) Securities?
                                      At the end of each calendar quarter, a list of these securities—called the Official List
                                 of Section 13(f) Securities—may be found on the SEC’s website.
                                      Generally, the list includes exchange-traded (e.g., NYSE, CHX) or Nasdaq-quoted
                                 stocks, equity options and warrants, shares of closed-end investment companies, and cer-
                                 tain convertible debt securities. Shares of open-end investment companies (i.e., mutual
                                 funds) are not included. Shares of exchange-traded funds (ETFs), however, are on the
                                 official list and would be reported on Form 13F.


                   1. 6. 4. 3         Schedule G Filings
                                     Regulation 13G was adopted to ease the beneficial ownership requirements for passive
                                 investors. Rather than filing a Schedule 13D, a passive investor whose beneficial owner-
                                 ship exceeds 5% of any registered security may file a Schedule 13G. A passive investor
                                 is defined as any person who can certify that they did not purchase or do not hold the
                                 securities for the purpose of changing or influencing control over the issuer and hold no
                                 more than 20% of the issuer’s securities. Investment companies and large pension funds
                                 are good examples of those that might have to file a Schedule 13G. Passive investors who
                                 choose to file a Schedule 13G must do so within 10 calendar days after crossing the 5%
                                 threshold just as with a Schedule 13D. Passive investors must amend their Schedule 13G
                                 within 45 days after the end of the calendar year to report any changes in the information
                                 previously reported.


                   1. 6. 4. 4         Section 16 Filings
                                     Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 requires executive officers, direc-
                                 tors and greater than 10% stockholders (i.e., control persons) to file transaction reports
                                 before the end of the second business day following the day on which a transaction has
                                 been executed in an equity security where they are considered an insider.


             1. 6. 5             CREDIT REQUIREMENTS (MARGIN)
                                     As mentioned earlier, Regulation T of the Federal Reserve Board came about as a
                                 result of the Act of 1934. It delegates the board of governors of the Federal Reserve System
                                 to set margin requirements. These margin requirements determine how much credit may
                                 be extended by broker-dealers to their customers to purchase certain securities. During the
                                 stock market crash of 1929, the margin requirements were 10%. Today they are 50%. This
                                 means that, in 1929, an investor could purchase $20,000 worth of stock with cash equity
                                 of only $2,000. Today, that same purchase of $20,000 of stock would require a cash down
                                 payment of $10,000. It should be obvi­ous from this example that one of the purposes of
                                 Regulation T is to prevent the excessive use of credit.
                                     One specific type of security on which credit may not be extended is a new issue. The
                                 underwriting syndicate must receive full payment for any new issue within 35 days of the




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 26                                                                                                        7/15/2016 2:02:36 PM
                                                                                           Session 1   Federal Securities Regulations        27




                                 purchase. Since mutual funds are a continuous new issue, their shares may NOT be pur-
                                 chased on margin. However, as with all new issues, once the shares have been owned in
                                 the account for 30 days, they may be used as collateral for a margin loan.
                                     Although there are exceptions (which won’t be tested), another case where margin is
                                 not permitted is on the purchase of options.


                   1. 6. 6           REGULATION OF THE USE OF MANIPULATIVE AND
                                     DECEPTIVE DEVICES
                                     The act outlaws the use of any manipulative, deceptive, or other fraudu­lent devices.
                                 The intent is to prevent any deception in or manipulation of securities mar­kets. Some of
                                 the specific devices prohibited are listed below. The first item below is considered a form
                                 of deception and the other two, market manipulation.
                                 ■■ Churning can be described as a broker-dealer effecting trans­actions in a discretion-
                                     ary account that are excessive in size or frequency, in view of the financial resources,
                                     objectives, and character of the account.
                                 ■■ Wash trades are prohibited under the act. A wash trade is a securities transaction
                                     that involves no change in the beneficial ownership of the security. For example, an
                                     investor might simultaneously buy and sell shares in one company through two differ-
                                     ent brokerage firms in order to create the appearance of substantial trading activity,
                                     and that is misleading to other investors. A wash sale for tax purposes is not related
                                     to this in any way. A wash sale for tax purposes occurs when a person sells a security
                                     and repurchases it within 30 days prior to or after the sale and is covered in Unit 4 of
                                     this course.
                                 ■■ Matched orders are illegal under the act. A matched order is the entering of a sell (or
                                     buy) order knowing that a corresponding buy (or sell) order of substantially the same
                                     size, at substantially the same time and at substantially the same price, either has been
                                     or will be entered. As is the case with wash trades, no real change in ownership takes
                                     place as a result of the transaction.

                                      Accurate recording of orders and subsequent trades is one way the regulators monitor
                                 for attempts to manipulate the market.


                        1. 6. 6. 1    Order Tickets
                                     SEC rules require preparation of order tickets before order entry. Required disclosures
                                 include:
                                 ■■ the account number;
                                 ■■ whether the order is solicited, unsolicited, or discretionary (including time or price);
                                 ■■ if a sale, whether long or short;
                                 ■■ the terms and conditions of the order (market or limit);
                                 ■■ the number of shares if a stock and if a bond, aggregate par value (but not rating or
                                     current yield);
                                 ■■ the time of order entry and execution, and the execution price; and
                                 ■■ the name of the broker-dealer and identity of the registered individual who accepted
                                     the order or is responsible for the account.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 27                                                                                                           7/15/2016 2:02:36 PM
     28         Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                         Two items that would not be on an order ticket are the current market price
                                                    of the security and the client’s name or address.



             1. 7           INSIDER TRADING AND SECURITIES FRAUD
                            ENFORCEMENT ACT OF 1988 (ITSFEA)
                                      An insider or control person is defined as an officer, director, or owner of more than
                                 10% of the voting stock of the company, or the immediate family of any of these persons.
                                 After the tremendous insider abuses of the mid-1980s, the SEC took steps to beef up
                                 its enforcement of insider trading, hence this act. This act incorporated all of the other
                                 prohibitions against the activities of insiders and the use of inside infor­mation and also
                                 increased the penalties that could be levied and made the recipient of inside information
                                 as guilty as the insider who passed on that informa­tion. In other words, the tippee would
                                 be just as guilty as the tipper.
                                      An insider is in violation of SEC rules when he trades securities on the basis of mate-
                                 rial, nonpublic information (MNPI), or when he passes on this infor­mation to another
                                 who subsequently acts on this information. It is criti­cal to remember that no chargeable
                                 violation has occurred unless a transaction has taken place.
                                      Even persons who do not meet the definition of an insider are subject to the rules gov-
                                 erning the use of nonpublic information and could be liable for any actions taken. When it
                                 comes to who could potentially be an insider—that is, who could possibly possess material
                                 inside informa­tion—the list is virtually endless. One could therefore say that a potential
                                 insider could be anyone coming across information dealing with a com­pany, other than
                                 those individuals who, by virtue of their title or other circumstance, are definitely insiders.
                                      The Insider Trading and Securities Fraud Enforcement Act of 1988 gave the SEC
                                 authority to seek civil penalties against persons violating the provisions of the act in
                                 amounts up to the greater of $1 million or treble damages. Treble damages means that
                                 the guilty party could be fined up to three times any ill-gotten gains or up to three times
                                 any losses avoided by using inside information to get out before a market drop. These civil
                                 penalties are in addition to any disgorgement of profits made or losses avoided as a result of
                                 the insider trading. From this fine, the SEC is authorized to award bounties to informants.
                                 If the SEC should elect to pursue criminal action, then penalties would include potential
                                 jail time with a maximum sentence of 20 years.


             1. 7. 1             PRIVATE RIGHTS OF ACTION FOR
                                 CONTEMPORANEOUS TRADING
                                     Any person who violates the rules or regulations by purchasing or selling a security
                                 while in possession of material, nonpublic information shall be liable in an action in any
                                 court of competent jurisdiction to any person who, contemporaneously with the purchase
                                 or sale of securities that is the subject of such violation, has purchased (where such viola-
                                 tion is based on a sale of securities) or sold (where such violation is based on a purchase of
                                 securities) securities of the same class.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 28                                                                                                              7/15/2016 2:02:36 PM
                                                                                                Session 1   Federal Securities Regulations        29




                                    ■■ Limitations on liability
                                       —— The total amount of damages imposed will not exceed the profit gained or loss
                                           avoided in the transaction or transactions that are the subject of the violation. In
                                           other words, the person who lost can recover his money, but there is no claim for
                                           treble damages—that is reserved for SEC actions.
                                    ■■ Statute of limitations
                                        —— No action may be brought under this section more than five years after the date of
                                           the last transaction that is the subject of the violation.


                   1. 7. 2          CHINESE WALL DOCTRINE
                                         It is plain that the regulators wish to maintain a level playing field for all and if those
                                    with material nonpublic information were to let it leak out to favored interests, a pro-
                                    hibited activity would be taking place. This is particularly an issue with those broker-
                                    dealers who engage in investment banking, especially mergers and acquisitions. In order
                                    to do their job, they must have access to confidential information that is not publically
                                    available—at least not yet. Therefore, in order to ensure that this information does not
                                    become available, for example, to the research department or the retail sales staff, these
                                    firms must erect (figuratively) a wall as impenetrable as the Great Wall of China between
                                    these departments. In essence, a Chinese Wall is the term used to describe the procedures
                                    followed by these firms to insulate information from reaching the wrong hands.



                               ✓
                            TA K E N O T E
                                                         Although you might see the term Chinese Wall on your exam, the preferred
                                                     term in the industry is Information Barrier.




                   1. 8         POWERS OF THE SEC
                                        The SEC has the authority to investigate possible violations of the federal securities
                                    laws. In addition, the SEC may also investigate pos­sible violation of the rules of the SROs,
                                    specifi­cally those of:
                                    ■■ a national securities exchange;
                                    ■■ the FINRA; and
                                    ■■ the MSRB.

                                        The fact that these SROs have their own procedures for enforcing the rules in no way
                                    limits the SEC’s powers to investigate and/or obtain a court injunction.
                                        In the course of these investigations, the SEC has the power to:
                                    ■■ administer oaths;
                                    ■■ subpoena witnesses;
                                    ■■ compel attendance;
                                    ■■ require books and records to be produced;




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 29                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:02:36 PM
     30         Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                 ■■ summarily suspend trading in any nonexempt security for up to 10 days without prior
                                    notice; and
                                 ■■ suspend trading on an entire exchange for up to 90 days (in order to do this, the SEC
                                    must give prior notification to the president of the United States).


             1. 8. 1             FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY RULES UNDER THE
                                 SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                                     The SEC adopted SEC Rule 15c3-1 (Uniform Net Capital Rule), which establishes
                                 minimum net capital requirements for broker-dealers. The term net capital refers to net
                                 liquid assets of a firm. In other words, a broker-dealer must at all times maintain a mini-
                                 mum amount of net capi­tal for the protection of its customers. If a firm does not have the
                                 required net capital under the rule, the SEC does not allow it to operate. Therefore, the
                                 purpose of the net capital rule is to protect the customers of the firm by imposing minimum
                                 net capital requirements.
                                     The SEC also requires all broker-dealers to maintain a fidelity bond to protect against
                                 misappropriation, forgery, and similar violations of the firm and its associated persons. In
                                 the next session, you will learn testable information about surety bonds required under
                                 state law.



             1. 9           SECURITIES AMENDMENTS ACT OF 1975
                                      The Securities Amendments Act of 1975 was signed into law by President Ford on
                                 June 4, 1975. The act amended certain parts of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and
                                 the Securities Act of 1933. This act represents the most important changes in the regula-
                                 tion of securities markets since the Securities Exchange Act was passed by Congress in
                                 1934.
                                      The main purpose of the act was to remove any barriers to competition in the securi-
                                 ties industry. The SEC was given much greater power to regulate the securities industry.
                                 The following is a summary of the main provisions of the Securities Amendments Act of
                                 1975.
                                 ■■ Fixed-commission rates were abolished in favor of negotiated commissions on public
                                      orders.
                                 ■■ The act required registration of municipal securities dealers with the SEC. Previously,
                                      these broker-dealers were exempt from registration with the SEC. This amendment
                                      gave rise to the MSRB. It is impor­tant to remember that the existence of the MSRB
                                      does not in any way limit the power of the SEC to regulate the securities busi­ness.
                                      However, many MSRB members are banks that are beyond the jurisdiction of the SEC
                                      and are regulated by the various banking authorities.
                                 ■■ The SEC was given the power to regulate the activities of transfer agents.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 30                                                                                                       7/15/2016 2:02:36 PM
                                                                                              Session 1   Federal Securities Regulations        31




                            Q
                        QUICK QUIZ 1.E         1.   Under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, registration with
                                                    the SEC would be required of
                                                      I. a broker-dealer whose business is strictly municipal securities
                                                     II. a broker-dealer whose business is strictly in non-Nasdaq over-the-coun-
                                                         ter securities
                                                    III. a banking institution dealing in municipal bonds
                                                    A.   I and II
                                                    B.   I and III
                                                    C.   II and III
                                                    D.   I, II and III

                                               2.   Provisions under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 include all of the fol-
                                                    lowing EXCEPT
                                                    A. requiring that all issues listed on a national securities exchange be regis-
                                                       tered with the SEC
                                                    B. prohibiting manipulative practices such as wash trades and misleading
                                                       statements
                                                    C. requiring full disclosure regarding an upcoming IPO
                                                    D. requiring registration of transfer agents




                   1. 10     INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940
                                   Under the Investment Company Act of 1940, an investment company is defined as
                               any issuer that is or holds itself out as being engaged primarily in the business of investing
                               in securities. It is important for you to know that the definition of investment company
                               does not include:
                               ■■ broker-dealers and underwriters;
                               ■■ banks and savings and loans;
                               ■■ insurance companies;
                               ■■ holding companies;
                               ■■ issuers whose securities are beneficially owned by no more than 100 persons; and
                               ■■ issuers who trade in investments other than securities.


                   1. 10. 1 TYPES OF INVESTMENT COMPANIES
                                  The Investment Company Act of 1940 defines three types of investment companies.
                               ■■ Face-amount certificate company: a face-amount certificate company is an invest-
                                  ment company that issues face-amount certificates on the installment plan. A face-
                                  amount certificate is a security that represents an obligation on the part of its issuer
                                  to pay a stated sum at a fixed date more than 24 months after the date of issuance, in
                                  consideration of the payment of periodic installments of a stated amount. If the inves-
                                  tor discontinues the plan and cashes in the certificate before maturity, he will probably
                                  lose money.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 31                                                                                                              7/15/2016 2:02:36 PM
     32         Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                 ■■ Unit investment trust: a unit investment trust (UIT) is an investment company that
                                    does not have a board of directors and issues only redeemable securities, each of which
                                    represents an undivided interest in a unit of specified securities. In other words, with-
                                    out an investment adviser (management), once compiled, the portfolio remains fixed.
                                    An example of a UIT is the municipal bond trust.
                                 ■■ Management company: a management company is any investment company other
                                    than a face-amount certificate company or a UIT. These companies are managed by
                                    advisers with a fee generally based on the amount of assets under management.




                            Q
                   QUICK QUIZ 1.F                   1.   Which of the following would be considered investment companies under
                                                         the Act of 1940?
                                                           I.   Face-amount certificate company
                                                          II.   Unit investment trust
                                                         III.   Management company
                                                         IV.    Holding company
                                                          V.    Insurance company
                                                         A.     I, II and III
                                                         B.     I, II, III and IV
                                                         C.     I, II, III and V
                                                         D.     I, II, III, IV and V



             1. 10. 2 SUBCLASSIFICATION OF INVESTMENT COMPANIES
                                     For the purpose of the Investment Company Act of 1940, management companies are
                                 divided into open-end and closed-end companies as follows.
                                 ■■ An open-end company is a management company that is continuously offering for sale,
                                     or has outstanding, any redeemable security of which it is the issuer. The term open-
                                     end company is syn­onymous with mutual fund. The redemption price is the net asset
                                     value, which is calculated every business day as of the close of the market. Purchases
                                     of mutual funds are always at net asset value plus a sales charge (if any). Redemptions
                                     are made at the next computed NAV, minus a redemption charge, if any, and must be
                                     made within seven days of receipt of the redemption request.
                                 ■■ A closed-end company is any management company other than an open-end com-
                                     pany. Closed-end companies generally have a onetime offering of shares and do not
                                     redeem their outstanding shares. Pricing of closed-end companies is not like that of
                                     open-end companies. The pricing is not based on net asset value—it is based on sup-
                                     ply and demand. Therefore, shares may be purchased or sold in the marketplace at a
                                     price above, below, or at the net asset value. When a closed-end company is sell­ing at
                                     a price above the net asset value, it is said to be selling at a premium; selling below the
                                     net asset value is called sell­ing at a discount.

                                    Management companies are further subclassified into diversified and nondiversified
                                 companies based on meeting certain diversification levels.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 32                                                                                                          7/15/2016 2:02:36 PM
                                                                                             Session 1   Federal Securities Regulations        33




                        1. 10. 2. 1 Management Company Prospectus Delivery Requirements
                                   Because open-end investment companies are continuously offering new shares, a cur-
                               rent fund prospectus must be delivered prior to or concurrent with the sale. In the case of
                               a closed-end company, a prospectus is only required on the IPO; all trading subsequent to
                               that is in the secondary market and does not require delivery of a prospectus.




                            Q
                        QUICK QUIZ 1.G         1.   How do closed-end investment companies differ from open-end investment
                                                    companies?
                                                      I. Closed-end companies register their shares with the SEC; open-end
                                                         companies do not.
                                                     II. The only time a prospectus is used with the sale of a closed-end com-
                                                         pany is on the IPO; sales of open-end shares must always be preceded
                                                         or accompanied by a prospectus.
                                                    III. Closed-end companies issue a fixed number of shares; open-end compa-
                                                         nies continuously issue new shares.
                                                    IV. Closed-end companies may only sell shares to institutional investors;
                                                         open-end companies can sell to any investor.
                                                     A. I and II
                                                     B. I and IV
                                                     C. II and III
                                                     D. III and IV

                                               2.   A financial reporter notices that the quoted price of one investment compa-
                                                    ny’s shares is at a 22% discount from the NAV. From this information, it can
                                                    be deduced that the company must be a(n)
                                                    A.   closed-end investment company
                                                    B.   contractual plan of a mutual fund
                                                    C.   open-end investment company
                                                    D.   unit investment trust



                   1. 10. 3 REGISTRATION OF INVESTMENT COMPANIES
                                   Investment companies must register as such by filing with the SEC as would any other
                               company under the Securities Act of 1933. In addition, they register specifically as invest-
                               ment companies under the Investment Company Act of 1940. In the registration state-
                               ment, the registrant describes all of the important information, such as objective, sales
                               loads, whether they will be concentrating investments in a particular industry or group of
                               industries, and so on.


                   1. 10. 4 INELIGIBILITY OF CERTAIN AFFILIATED PERSONS
                            AND UNDERWRITERS
                                   The Investment Act of 1940 prohibits people who have committed certain acts from
                               serv­ing in certain sensitive positions with an investment company, its adviser, or its princi-




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 33                                                                                                             7/15/2016 2:02:36 PM
     34         Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                 pal underwriter. Specifically, no one may serve as a director, employee, investment adviser,
                                 member of an advisory board, officer, or principal underwriter if that person has been:
                                 ■■ convicted, within the previous 10 years, of any felony or misdemeanor involving the
                                     purchase or sale of any security or arising out of that person’s conduct as an under-
                                     writer, broker-dealer, investment adviser, or affiliated person, salesman, or employee of
                                     any investment company; or
                                 ■■ permanently or temporarily enjoined by order, judgment, or decree of any court of
                                     competent jurisdiction from acting in any phase of the securities business.

                                     Any person who is ineligible, because of a conviction for felony or misdemeanor, to
                                 serve or act as stated above may file with the SEC an application to become eligible again.
                                 The SEC may grant the request, either unconditionally or on an appropriate temporary or
                                 other conditional basis, if it feels that it is not against the public interest or protection of
                                 investors to allow that person back into the business.
                                     In general, investment companies cannot have a board of directors that consists of
                                 more than 60% of persons who meet the definition of interested persons of the investment
                                 company.



                            ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         Another way of stating that no more than 60% of the directors may be
                                                    interested persons is to say that at least 40% must be non-interested, that is,
                                                    “outside” directors. These are individuals who have no connection to the fund
                                                    other than a position on the board (and maybe owning some shares of the fund
                                                    as would any investor).



             1. 10. 5 RULE 12b-1
                                     Rule 12b-1 is titled Payment of Asset-Based Sales Loads by Registered Open-End
                                 Management Investment Companies. This rule permits a mutual fund to act as a distribu-
                                 tor of its own shares without the use of an underwriter and with an asset-based sales load.
                                 An asset-based sales load is any direct or indirect financing by a mutual fund of sales or
                                 promotional services or activities in connection with the distribution of shares. This basi-
                                 cally permits no-load funds to pay commissions (sometimes called trails) to broker-dealers
                                 who sell or otherwise promote the sale of their fund shares. The mutual fund may not use
                                 the term no-load if its 12b-1 fee exceeds .25% (25 basis points). Under any circumstances,
                                 the maximum 12b-1 charge may not exceed .75% (and FINRA allows another .25% to be
                                 added on as a servicing fee).
                                     The mutual fund may act as a distributor of the shares of which it is the issuer, pro-
                                 vided that any asset-based sales load paid by the company is paid according to a written
                                 plan describing all material aspects of the financing of the distribution. This written plan
                                 must meet the following requirements.
                                 ■■ The plan has been approved initially by a vote of at least a majority of the outstanding
                                     voting securities of the investment company.
                                 ■■ The plan, together with any related agreements, has been approved initially and reap-
                                     proved at least annually by a vote of the board of directors of the company, and of the
                                     directors who are not interested persons of the company and have no direct or indirect
                                     financial interest in the operation of the 12b-1 plan or in any related agreements.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 34                                                                                                             7/15/2016 2:02:36 PM
                                                                                                 Session 1   Federal Securities Regulations        35




                                       The directors who vote in favor of implementation or continuation of the plan must
                                   believe that:
                                   ■■ it is likely that the plan will benefit the company, existing shareholders, and future
                                       sharehold­ers;
                                   ■■ given the circumstances, the amounts payable under the plan and related agreements
                                       represent charges within the range of what would have been negotiated at arm’s length
                                       as payment for the specific sales or promotional services and activities to be financed
                                       under the plan; and
                                   ■■ the plan may be terminated at any time by a vote of the majority of the members of
                                       the board of directors of the com­pany who are not interested persons of the company
                                       and have no direct or indirect financial interest in the operation of the plan or in any
                                       related agreements, or by a vote of the majority of the shareholders of the company.




                                Q
                        QUICK QUIZ 1.H             1.   All of the following statements regarding a 12b-1 company are true EXCEPT
                                                        A. the plan must be initially approved by at least a majority of the out-
                                                           standing voting securities of the investment company
                                                        B. the plan must be renewed by a majority of the fund’s directors
                                                        C. the plan may be terminated by a vote of the majority of sharehold­ers or
                                                           a majority of the board of directors
                                                        D. the rule only applies to open-end investment companies



                   1. 10. 6 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES OF INVESTMENT
                            COMPANIES
                                      Investment companies are prohibited from engaging in several activities. Investment
                                   companies may not:
                                   ■■ purchase any security on margin;
                                   ■■ participate on a joint basis in any trading account in securities (i.e., an investment
                                      company cannot have a joint account with someone else);
                                   ■■ sell any security short; or
                                   ■■ acquire more than 3% of the outstanding voting securities of another investment com-
                                      pany.

                                      There are exceptions to the above prohibitions, but, for the purposes of the exam, you
                                   may disregard any exceptions.




                                Q
                            QUICK QUIZ 1.I         1.   The Investment Company Act of 1940 prohibits registered investment com­
                                                        panies from engaging in any of the following practices EXCEPT
                                                        A. issuing common stock
                                                        B. selling short or purchasing securities for the company’s portfolio on margin
                                                        C. owning more than 3% of the outstanding voting securities of another
                                                           investment company
                                                        D. opening a joint account with another investment company




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 35                                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:02:36 PM
     36         Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




             1. 10. 7 CHANGES IN INVESTMENT POLICY
                                    In order for an investment company’s board to make fundamental invest­ment policy
                                 changes, a majority vote of the outstanding voting stock is required. Examples of funda-
                                 mental changes would include:
                                 ■■ a change in subclassification, such as from an open-end to a closed-end company or
                                    from a diversified to a nondiversified company;
                                 ■■ deviation from any fundamental policy in its registration statement, including a
                                    change in investment objective; and
                                 ■■ changing the nature of its business so as to cease to be an investment company.

                                      In other words, since the investment company is supposed to function for the ben-
                                 efit of the shareholders, any of these changes would require the vote of a majority of the
                                 shareholders.


             1. 10. 8 SIZE OF INVESTMENT COMPANIES
                                     No registered investment company is permitted to make a public offering of secu­rities
                                 unless it has a net worth of at least $100,000.


             1. 10. 9 INVESTMENT ADVISORY AND UNDERWRITER
                      CONTRACTS
                                     No registered investment company shall, unless authorized by a majority of its out-
                                 standing voting securities, engage any person to serve or act as investment adviser of a
                                 registered investment company, or as principal underwriter, except pursuant to a written
                                 contract that:
                                 ■■ precisely describes all compensation to be paid;
                                 ■■ will be approved at least annually by the board of directors or by majority vote of the
                                     shareholders if it is to be renewed after the first two years;
                                 ■■ provides that it may be terminated at any time, without penalty, by the board of direc-
                                     tors or by majority vote of the shareholders on not more than 60 days’ written notice
                                     to the investment adviser; and
                                 ■■ provides for its automatic termination in the event of its assignment.

                                      In addition, it is unlawful for any registered investment company to enter into or
                                 renew any contract with an investment adviser or principal underwriter unless the terms
                                 have been approved by majority vote of directors who are not parties to such con­tract as
                                 affiliated persons (i.e., directors who are not affiliated with the adviser or the underwriter,
                                 who in the aggregate must comprise at least 40% of the directors).



                            ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         The effect of this final paragraph is that no advisory contract, whether initial
                                                    or renewal, may take effect without approval of the noninterested members of
                                                    the board.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 36                                                                                                                   7/15/2016 2:02:36 PM
                                                                                             Session 1   Federal Securities Regulations        37




                        1. 10. 9. 1 Transactions of Certain Affiliated Persons and Underwriters
                                    It is unlawful for any affiliated person of, or principal underwriter for, a registered
                                investment company to:
                                ■■ knowingly sell any security to that investment company unless it is a sale only of
                                    shares issued by that company itself (redemption of the fund’s shares) or a sale of secu-
                                    rities of which the seller is the issuer and which are part of a general public offering;
                                ■■ borrow money or any other property from the fund; or
                                ■■ knowingly purchase from that investment company any secu­rity other than the fund’s
                                    shares.

                                    Any person may file with the SEC an application for an order exempting a proposed
                                transaction of the applicant from one or more of the above provisions, which may or may
                                not be granted depending on the circumstances.



                              !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                     An affiliated person is defined as any person directly or indirectly owning,
                                                controlling, or holding with power to vote, 5% or more of the outstanding shares
                                                of the investment company. An affiliated person also includes any person directly
                                                or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with the invest-
                                                ment company or any officer, director, partner or employee of the investment
                                                company. However, while technically considered an affiliated person, no person is
                                                deemed to be an “interested person” for purposes of the maximum percentage
                                                of interested persons on the board solely by reason of his being a member of the
                                                fund’s board of directors or an owner of its securities. A person is deemed to be
                                                a control person when owning or controlling more than 25% of the outstanding
                                                shares.


                        1. 10. 9. 2 Custodian
                                     In the same section of the Act where the SEC put limitations on the activities of
                                certain affiliates of the fund, it acted to erect a firewall of sorts to make it more difficult
                                for those persons to have access to assets of the fund. As a result, it is required that every
                                registered investment company keeps its assets with a custodian. In the majority of cases,
                                that custodian is a bank, hence the common use of the term custodian bank. Although the
                                Act specifies certain financial requirements for that bank, it does not require that the bank
                                have FDIC coverage. Alternatively, the investment company may use a broker-dealer that
                                is a member firm of a national securities exchange.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 37                                                                                                             7/15/2016 2:02:37 PM
     38         Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                            Q
                   QUICK QUIZ 1.J                   1.   ABC is an FINRA member broker-dealer. Among other functions, it serves as
                                                         the principal underwriter of the XYZ Mutual Fund. Which of the follow­ing
                                                         transactions of ABC would be prohibited unless exemptive relief was offered
                                                         by the SEC?
                                                         A. ABC tenders, from its investment account, 500 shares of the XYZ Mutual
                                                            Fund for redemption.
                                                         B. ABC purchases, for its investment account, 500 shares of XYZ Mutual
                                                            Fund.
                                                         C. ABC purchases some securities directly from XYZ’s portfolio.
                                                         D. All of the above.

                                                    2.   Which of the following statements correctly expresses requirements under
                                                         the Investment Company Act of 1940?
                                                           I. A registered open-end investment company using a bank as custodian
                                                              must choose one that has FDIC coverage.
                                                          II. If an affiliated person of a registered investment company wishes to bor-
                                                              row money from the fund, there must be at least 300% asset coverage.
                                                         III. No investment advisory contract may be entered into that does not pro-
                                                              vide for termination with no more than 60 days notice in writing.
                                                         IV. No registered investment company may acquire more than 3% of the
                                                              shares of another investment company.
                                                          A. I and II
                                                          B. I and IV
                                                          C. II and III
                                                          D. III and IV



             1. 10. 10 SALE OF REDEEMABLE SECURITIES
                                     This section deals with prices at which mutual fund shares may be sold. The rule basi-
                                 cally requires that the public offering price, as stated in the prospectus, be upheld for all
                                 buyers. There are, however, several ways in which fund shares may be sold to investors at
                                 a reduced sales charge and even at no sales charge.
                                     The most important way in which a reduction of sales charge may be made available is
                                 by use of a breakpoint. This is the quantity level stated in the prospectus at which inves-
                                 tors receive a reduction in load. This break­point is available to any person who purchases
                                 in the stated quantity. In this case, however, the definition of any person is somewhat
                                 limited. Most commonly, it includes:
                                 ■■ an individual, spouse, and dependent children under age 21 pur­chasing in one or more
                                     accounts;
                                 ■■ any legitimate entity purchasing for its own account, as long as the entity was not
                                     formed for the purposes of making this purchase; and
                                 ■■ the trustee purchasing on behalf of a qualified employee ben­efit plan, such as a pension
                                     or profit-sharing plan.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 38                                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:02:37 PM
                                                                                             Session 1   Federal Securities Regulations        39




                                  It does not include:
                               ■■ purchases made for the account of an investment club; and
                               ■■ purchases made on behalf of any entity or group that does not have a common pur-
                                  pose, other than making this investment.

                                  Under what circumstances are the shares available at no sales charge?
                               ■■ Sales made to related persons of the fund, such as officers and other employees of the
                                  fund, the adviser, or the principal underwriter.
                               ■■ Shares purchased through automatic reinvestment of dividends and capital gains dis-
                                  tributions. Although no tax benefit accrues, the investor is able to enjoy compounding
                                  without expense.



                             !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT             This rule may appear on your exam in a question asking if an investment
                                              adviser (IA) is permitted to reduce his fees because of commissions earned on
                                              the sale of mutual funds. Commissions earned on any product, such as mutual
                                              funds, insurance, and so forth, may be used either in full or in part as a credit
                                              against advisory fees. What the IA cannot do is rebate or reduce commissions on
                                              products offered with a stated offering price, such as mutual funds or insurance
                                              company products. While they appear to result in the same outcome, legally,
                                              there is a difference.




                             !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT              Engaging in sales practices that prevent clients from reaching breakpoints
                                              not only is a violation of federal law but also is considered an unethical business
                                              practice by NASAA (as you will see in the next session). It is critical that you know
                                              that when an agent makes an initial sale of shares of an open-end investment
                                              company in a quantity just below a published breakpoint, the agent is in violation
                                              for failing to indicate that with a small amount added to the purchase, a substan-
                                              tial savings in sales charge will result.




                            Q
                        QUICK QUIZ 1.K        1.   Under which of the following circumstances would a purchase of mutual
                                                   fund shares at a price below the public offering price be allowable?
                                                     I. The purchase is made by the designated agent of an incorporated
                                                        investment club that reaches the breakpoint.
                                                    II. A parent buys enough to reach the breakpoint but places half the order
                                                        in his account and the other half in an account for which his wife is des-
                                                        ignated as custodian for their son.
                                                   III. The receptionist for the XYZ Growth Fund purchases $100 of that fund.
                                                   IV. A financial planner bunches his clients’ orders and turns them in as one
                                                        in an amount sufficient to reach the breakpoint.
                                                   A.   I and II
                                                   B.   I and III
                                                   C.   II and III
                                                   D.   II, III and IV




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 39                                                                                                             7/15/2016 2:02:37 PM
     40         Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




             1. 10. 11 PERIODIC AND OTHER REPORTS
                                     All investment companies must file annual financial reports with the SEC. These
                                 reports contain an audited balance sheet and income state­ment.


                   1. 10. 11. 1 Shareholder Reports
                                    At least semiannually, shareholders must be mailed reports, including:
                                 ■■ a balance sheet;
                                 ■■ an income statement;
                                 ■■ a listing of the amounts and values of securities owned;
                                 ■■ a statement of purchases and sales; and
                                 ■■ a statement of the remuneration paid by the investment company during the period
                                    covered by the report to officers and directors, as well as any person of whom any offi-
                                    cer or director of the company is an affiliated person.


             1. 10. 12 UNLAWFUL REPRESENTATIONS AND NAMES
                                     It is unlawful for any person, in issuing or selling any security of which a registered
                                 investment company is the issuer, to represent or imply in any manner whatsoever that
                                 such security or company has been guar­anteed, sponsored, recommended, or approved
                                 by the U.S. government or any agency thereof. This is a parallel requirement to the SEC
                                 disclaimer found on the front of every prospectus.


             1. 10. 13 LARCENY AND EMBEZZLEMENT
                                     Whoever steals, unlawfully and willfully converts to his own use or to the use of
                                 another, or embezzles any of the monies, funds, securities, or assets of any registered invest-
                                 ment company will be deemed guilty of a crime and, upon conviction thereof, will be sub-
                                 ject to the penalties of a fine of a maximum of $10,000, imprisonment for up to five years,
                                 or both. In addition to these penalties, officers and directors of invest­ment companies may
                                 be subject to civil action by the SEC for various violations of the Investment Company
                                 Act of 1940. If found guilty, you have the right to appeal within 60 days to the Federal
                                 Court of Appeals for the District in which the case was heard.


             1. 10. 14 COMPUTING RETURNS ON MUTUAL FUND SHARES
                                     In order to avoid misrepresentation or misunderstanding, the SEC stipulates the meth-
                                 ods that are to be used when computing returns on an investment in open-end investment
                                 company shares. There are two types of return used: current and total.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 40                                                                                                          7/15/2016 2:02:37 PM
                                                                                            Session 1   Federal Securities Regulations        41




                        1. 10. 14. 1 Current Return on Mutual Fund Shares
                                    To calculate a fund’s current yield (return), divide the yearly dividend paid from net
                                investment income by the current offering price. Current yield calculations may only be
                                based on dividend distributions for the preceding 12 months. Capital gains distributions
                                may not be included in yield calculations. Most mutual funds with income objectives dis-
                                tribute dividends quarterly, although they can be with any frequency, even monthly.




                            *
                            EXAMPLE                  The KAPCO Income Fund has a current public offering price of $10.50 and
                                                a net asset value per share of $10.00. During the past 12 months, the fund has
                                                made four quarterly distributions from net investment income of $.15 and one
                                                distribution from capital gains in the amount of $.25. The fund’s current yield
                                                would be?
                                                     A. 1.5%
                                                     B. 5.7%
                                                     C. 6.0%
                                                     D. 1.1%
                                                    Answer: B. It is computed by dividing the annual income (4 x $.15 = $.60)
                                                    by the POP (not the NAV) of $10.50. Only the dividends are used for current
                                                    yield.


                        1. 10. 14. 2 Total Return on Mutual Fund Shares
                                    Total return for a mutual fund is computed by adding the capital gains to the dividends
                                distributed. Total return always assumes reinvestment of all distributions (dividends and
                                capital gains). This is the only time that dividends and capital gains are combined.



                   1. 11     MONEY LAUNDERING
                                    Money laundering involves disguising financial assets so they can be uti­lized without
                                detecting the illegal activity that produced them. Through money laundering, a criminal
                                transforms the proceeds of illicit activities into funds that appear to have been generated
                                by legal means. Money laundering enables criminals to hide and legitimize the proceeds
                                derived from illegal ventures.


                   1. 11. 1 CURRENCY TRANSACTION REPORTS (CTRS)
                                    The Bank Secrecy Act requires every financial institution to electronically file through
                                the Department of the U.S. Treasury, a currency transaction report (CTR) on FinCEN
                                Form 112 for each cash transaction that exceeds $10,000. This requirement applies to
                                cash trans­actions used to pay off loans, the electronic transfer of funds, or the purchase
                                of certificates of deposit, stocks, bonds, mutual funds, or other investments. The act also
                                requires the reporting of wire transfers in excess of $3,000.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 41                                                                                                            7/15/2016 2:02:37 PM
     42         Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




             1. 12 THE NATIONAL SECURITIES MARKETS
             		 IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 1996 (NSMIA)
                                     In October, 1996, Congress passed the National Securities Markets Improvement Act
                                 of 1996 (NSMIA). That bill became law and extensively amended various provisions of
                                 the Securities Act of 1933, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and the Investment
                                 Advisers Act of 1940. As we will cover in Session 3, the law effectively bifurcated (split in
                                 two) the regulation of investment advisers by creating a new definition: Covered Adviser
                                 (sometimes referred to under state securities laws as “Federal Covered Adviser”). Relevant
                                 to Session 2, a new definition was created: Covered Security (sometimes referred to under
                                 state securities laws as “Federal Covered Security”). State securities registration require-
                                 ments were preempted with respect to federal covered securities.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 42                                                                                                        7/15/2016 2:02:37 PM
                                                                                                Session 1   Federal Securities Regulations         43




                        Q U I C K          Q U I Z           A N S W E R S

                   Quick Quiz 1.A                                                  Quick Quiz 1.D

                      1. A.   An issuer is a person who issues a security,           1. B.   Whenever the order calls for time/price
                              whether or not the security is exempt. In                      discretion, it is considered a day order and
                              the question, the antique dealer is issuing                    must be executed that day. Waiting two days
                              collectibles, not securities.                                  is inappropriate.

                      2. D.   A security is any note, stock, bond, certificate       2. A.   University presidents are a popular choice
                              of interest, or participation in any profit                    for serving as outside directors. Under the
                              sharing arrangement, investment contract,                      Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the term
                              certificate of deposit for a security, interest in             associated person of a broker-dealer would
                              oil, gas, or mining rights, or any investment                  include an outside director of a broker-
                              commonly considered a security. (Generally,                    dealer and all registered personnel but not
                              it is an investment contract wherein the                       employees who are strictly clerical and
                              investor is passive and expects a return on                    administrative.
                              the investment through the efforts of others.)
                              The definition of a security does not include          3. B.   This is the definition of an unsolicited
                              direct ownership of real estate, commodities                   transaction.
                              futures contracts (e.g., corn, wheat),
                                                                                   Quick Quiz 1.E
                              collectibles, precious metals, or life insurance
                              or annuity contracts that have fixed payouts.          1. A.   The 1975 Amendments required, for the first
                   Quick Quiz 1.B                                                            time, that any firm engaged in the municipal
                                                                                             securities business be registered with the
                      1. D.   One of the benefits of this term is that these                 SEC. Ever since 1934, broker-dealers engaged
                              investors do not count in the numerical                        in any phase of the securities markets have
                              limitation placed on private placements                        been required to register with the SEC.
                              made under Rule 506(b). Note that for                          Banks (financial institutions) are members
                              offerings made under Rule 506(c), all                          of the MSRB but are exempt from SEC
                              investors must be accredited. When filing                      registration.
                              a joint return, the income requirement is
                                                                                     2. C.   The disclosure requirement for new issues
                              $300,000, and an employee benefit plan must
                                                                                             (IPOs) is found in the Securities Act of 1933.
                              have assets in excess of $5 million. Insiders
                              are only considered accredited investors             Quick Quiz 1.F
                              when it is that issuer’s security being offered.
                                                                                     1. A.   Holding companies and insurance companies
                   Quick Quiz 1.C                                                            are specifically excluded from the definition
                                                                                             of an investment company.
                      1. A.   His 15% ownership is control. Her 5% is
                              not, but the fact that she is the spouse of an
                              affiliate makes her one, causing this to be
                              a sale of control stock. All sales of control
                              stock (unless an exemption applies) must be
                              accompanied by a Rule 144 filing.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 43                                                                                                                    7/15/2016 2:02:37 PM
        44         Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition



        Quick Quiz 1.G                                                       Quick Quiz 1. J

             1. C.     Closed-end companies issue a fixed number               1. C.   Without an exemptive order from the SEC,
                       of shares, whereas open-end companies do                        it would be a violation of the Investment
                       not specify the number of shares to be issued.                  Company Act of 1940 for any affiliated
                       Both types of company register issues with                      person to purchase any security from an
                       the SEC, and any investor may invest in                         investment company other than shares of the
                       either type of company. Open-end shares                         fund itself.
                       must always be sold with a prospectus because
                       each is a newly issued share.                           2. D.   The Investment Company Act of 1940
                                                                                       requires that all advisory contracts contain
             2. A.     If the selling price of an investment company                   a provision that the contract may be
                       is less than the NAV, the fund must be a                        terminated upon no more than 60 days
                       closed-end investment company.                                  notice in writing. The Act prohibits any
                                                                                       registered investment company from
        Quick Quiz 1.H                                                                 owning more than 3% of the shares of
                                                                                       another investment company. There are
             1. C.     The plan may be terminated by a majority                        no circumstances under which an affiliated
                       vote of the shareholders or a majority vote of                  person can borrow from the fund, and it is
                       the board of directors who are noninterested                    not a requirement that the custodian bank
                       directors of the fund. A 12b-1 plan wouldn’t                    have FDIC insurance.
                       work with anything other than an open-end
                       investment company.                                   Quick Quiz 1.K

        Quick Quiz 1.I                                                         1. C.   Any family unit may combine purchases
                                                                                       in as many accounts as it wishes to reach
             1. A.     The one thing that all investment companies                     the breakpoint for reduced sales charges.
                       must do is issue common stock. That is the                      Most often, this is spouses and custodial
                       form of ownership. All of the other activities                  accounts for minor children (there are
                       are prohibited.                                                 exceptions—not tested). If an employee of
                                                                                       the fund (the receptionist) purchases for
                                                                                       his own account, the sales charge is usually
                                                                                       eliminated altogether. A purchase made for a
                                                                                       group, such as an investment club or multiple
                                                                                       clients with no common purpose other than
                                                                                       investment, is not eligible for a reduction.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 44                                                                                                              7/15/2016 2:02:37 PM
                            2
                            State Regulation Under
                            the Uniform Securities
                            Act (USA)


                            T
                                    he Uniform Securities Act (USA) is model legislation that arose in
                                    an effort to unify numerous state securities laws, known as blue-sky
                                    laws. Under the USA, the state Administrator has jurisdiction over
                            securities transactions that originate in, are directed into, or are accepted in
                            the Administrator’s state. For those persons or transactions that fall within
                            the jurisdiction of the Administrator, the Administrator has power to make
                            rules and orders; conduct investigations and issue subpoenas; issue cease and
                            desist orders; and deny, suspend, cancel, or revoke registrations.
                                The USA provides both civil liabilities and criminal penalties for violat-
                            ing the act. Civil liabilities enable an investor to recover attorney’s fees,
                            court costs, and losses resulting from securities sold in violation of the USA.
                            Criminal penalties may be levied in addition to the civil liabilities against
                            those who engage in fraudulent activities under the act.
                                The Series 66 exam will include approximately 23 questions on the ma-
                            terial presented in this session. ■




                                                                                                            45




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 45                                                                            7/15/2016 2:02:37 PM
           OBJECTIVES


                                When you have completed this session, you should be able to:

                            ■■ recognize the jurisdiction of the state securities Administrator;

                            ■■ list the powers of the Administrator within its jurisdiction;

                            ■■ discuss the different methods of state securities registration;

                            ■■ identify instruments that are defined under the USA as securities;

                            ■■ identify securities that are defined as exempt under the USA;

                            ■■ define exempt transactions and provide examples;

                            ■■ define and understand the differences between broker-dealer, agent, investment adviser,
                               and investment adviser representative;

                            ■■ identify for each category of professional, the procedures and requirements for registra-
                               tion in a state;

                            ■■ understand the antifraud provisions of the USA;

                            ■■ recognize specific fraudulent activities, unethical practices prohibited practices, and vari-
                               ous forms of deceptive market manipulation;

                            ■■ identify what is and what is not considered a person;

                            ■■ understand the differences between exclusions from a definition and exemptions from
                               provisions of the USA;

                            ■■ recognize what is and what is not a security;

                            ■■ determine who is and is not a security issuer;

                            ■■ describe the requirements for exemption from registration for private placements;

                            ■■ understand the relationship between state and national securities laws;

                            ■■ describe the civil rights of recovery for a security’s sale or for investment advice purchased
                               in violation of the USA; and

                            ■■ contrast civil and criminal penalties for violation of the act.




      46




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 46                                                                                             7/15/2016 2:02:38 PM
                                                                       Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)        47




                   2. 1       DEFINITIONS UNDER THE UNIFORM SECURITIES ACT


                   2. 1. 1       THE UNIFORM SECURITIES ACT OF 1956 (USA)

                        2. 1. 1. 1   The USA is Model State Securities Legislation
                                      With the enactment of numerous state securities laws, commonly referred to as blue-
                                 sky laws, the need for uniformity in securities laws among the states arose. In 1956, the
                                 National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws (NCCUSL), a national
                                 organization of lawyers devoted to unifying state laws, drafted the original Uniform
                                 Securities Act (USA) as model legislation for the separate states to adopt. As model leg-
                                 islation, the USA is not actual legislation; the USA is a template or guide that each state
                                 uses in drafting its securities legislation. The securities laws of most states follow the USA
                                 very closely, and, in many cases, almost exactly.



                               !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT                The exam will test your knowledge of the Uniform Securities Act, not the
                                                 specifics of your state’s securities legislation. The USA is periodically updated to
                                                 adjust to developments in the securities markets through the passage of Model
                                                 Rules. You will be tested on the 1956 version of the USA used by the North
                                                 American Securities Administrators Association (NASAA), the advisory body of
                                                 state securities regulators responsible for the content of the exam. The Series 66
                                                 exam requires that you not only know what the USA says, but also are able to
                                                 apply the law to concrete situations. General knowledge of the law is not enough
                                                 to pass the exam; you will be asked to apply the law to situations that may arise
                                                 in the course of business.



                   2. 1. 2       ADMINISTRATOR
                                      Although some states may use other terms to describe this position, the exam will only
                                 use the word Administrator to refer to the office or agency that has the complete respon-
                                 sibility for administering the securities laws of the state.
                                      Therefore, the Administrator has jurisdiction over almost all securities activity that
                                 emanates from his state as well as that received in his state. The Administrator has juris-
                                 diction over the registration of securities professionals and securities. He has the power to
                                 make rules and issue orders. He can deny, suspend, or revoke registrations. Yes, there are
                                 some limitations on the Administrator’s powers (and those will be covered in this session
                                 and Session 3), but overall, this is one very powerful person.
                                      When it comes to legal issues, terminology is critical. For example, there are three
                                 terms that will be used in this section that can become quite confusing. Let’s try to explain
                                 them here, and they will make more sense as you go through this manual.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 47                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:02:38 PM
     48         Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                   2. 1. 2. 1         Cease and Desist Order
                                     This is used by the Administrator whenever it appears that any registered person has
                                 engaged or is about to engage in any act or practice constituting a violation of any provi-
                                 sion of this act or any rule or order hereunder. The Administrator may issue a cease and
                                 desist order, with or without a prior hearing against the person or persons engaged in the
                                 prohibited activities, directing them to cease and desist from further illegal activity. Note
                                 that this only applies to registered persons, not securities.


                   2. 1. 2. 2         Stop Order
                                     A stop order is used to deny effectiveness to, or suspend or revoke the effectiveness of,
                                 any registration statement. This applies only to securities, not professionals such as broker-
                                 dealers, agents, investment advisers and investment adviser representatives.


                   2. 1. 2. 3         Summary Order (Acting Summarily)
                                    The dictionary defines “summarily” as acting without prior notice. This is one of the
                                 powers of the Administrator with regard to registration of both persons and securities.
                                 There are three specific cases where this power applies in the USA:
                                 ■■ Postponing or suspending the registration of any securities professional pending a final
                                    determination of a proceeding related to a problem
                                 ■■ Postponing or suspending the registration of a security pending a final determination
                                    of a proceeding relating to a problem
                                 ■■ Denying or revoking a specific security or transaction exemption

                                     In each of these cases, upon the entry of the order, the Administrator must promptly
                                 notify all interested parties that it has been entered, the reasons for the order, and that
                                 within fifteen days after the receipt of a written request a hearing will be granted.


                   2. 1. 2. 4         Final Orders
                                       A final order is one that ends litigation (usually). Under the Uniform Securities Act,
                                 it is when the Administrator (or a court) renders a judgment in an action (guilty or inno-
                                 cent). Regardless of whether we’re referring to persons, exemptions, or registration, other
                                 than in the case of a summary order, no final order may be entered without:
                                 ■■ appropriate prior notice to the interested parties;
                                 ■■ opportunity for hearing; and
                                 ■■ written findings of fact and conclusions of law.


             2. 1. 3             BLUE-SKY LAWS
                                      The common term used to refer to state securities laws.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 48                                                                                                         7/15/2016 2:02:38 PM
                                                                    Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)        49




                   2. 1. 4    PERSON
                                  The term person means any individual, (sometimes known as a natural person), cor-
                              poration, partner­ship, association, joint stock company, or trust where the interests of the
                              beneficiaries are evidenced by a security, an unincorporated orga­nization, a government,
                              or a political subdivision of a government. This is a very broad definition.



                             !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                  Although there are a wide variety of entities that may be defined as persons,
                                              on the exam, there are only three nonpersons. Those are:
                                                  ■■ minors (anyone unable to enter into contracts under the laws of the
                                                     state);

                                                  ■■ deceased individuals; and

                                                  ■■ individuals legally declared mentally incompetent.

                                                                Person includes any entity such as:




                                                                Individual or Business           or Government



                   2. 1. 5    BROKER-DEALER
                                  The term broker-dealer means any person engaged in the business of effecting trans-
                              actions in securities for the account of others or for his own account. When acting on
                              behalf of others, they are acting as brokers; when acting on behalf of themselves, they
                              are acting as dealers. For exam purposes, it is critical to remember that the primary func-
                              tion of a broker-dealer is making securities transactions. In almost all cases, broker-dealers
                              register with both the SEC and the state(s). This term is sometimes abbreviated to BD on
                              the exam.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 49                                                                                                             7/15/2016 2:02:38 PM
     50         Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




             2. 1. 6             AGENT
                                      Agent means any individual, other than a broker-dealer, who represents a broker-dealer
                                 or issuer in effecting or attempting to effect purchases or sales of securities. You must know
                                 that these are always individuals (natural persons) and their function is to be involved
                                 in securities sales or supervising those who do. On FINRA exams, these individuals are
                                 referred to as registered representatives.
                                      Almost always, these individuals work for broker-dealers, but, there can be instances
                                 when the individual is selling securities on behalf of the issuer of those securities.


             2. 1. 7             INVESTMENT ADVISER
                                    The term investment adviser means any person:
                                 ■■ who, for compensation, engages in the business of advising oth­ers, either directly or
                                    through publications or writings, as to the value of securities or as to the advisability
                                    of investing in, pur­chasing, or selling securities; or
                                 ■■ who, for compensation and as part of a regular business, issues or promulgates analyses
                                    or reports concerning securities.

                                     Under the National Securities Markets Improvements Act of 1996 (NSMIA), invest-
                                 ment advisers are registered with either the SEC (covered advisers) or the state (state
                                 registered adviser), but never both.
                                     You may see the abbreviation IA on your exam.


             2. 1. 8             INVESTMENT ADVISER REPRESENTATIVE
                                     An investment adviser representative is any individual who represents a state-regis-
                                 tered investment adviser or federal covered investment adviser performing duties related
                                 to the giving of or soliciting for advisory services. Just as with agents, these can only be
                                 individuals (natural persons). You may see the abbreviation IAR on your exam.


             2. 1. 9             ISSUER
                                      The term issuer means any person who issues or proposes to issue any security. Issuers
                                 primarily include corporations and governments. However, the exam will want you to
                                 know that under the USA, with respect to certificates of interest or participation in oil,
                                 gas, or mining titles or leases, or in payments out of production under such titles or leases,
                                 there is not considered to be any “issuer.”


             2. 1. 10 NONISSUER
                                     The term nonissuer means not directly or indirectly for the benefit of the issuer
                                 because the seller of the security is someone other than the issuer. This is your basic every-
                                 day trading on the stock markets.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 50                                                                                                         7/15/2016 2:02:38 PM
                                                                  Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)        51




                   2. 1. 11 SECURITY
                                The definition of security is quite broad and includes those items one normally thinks
                            of as securities (e.g., stocks, bonds, debentures, mutual funds, variable annuities, etc.),
                            but also includes a number of unusual items, such as an investment contract and a pre-
                            organization certificate. We will cover securities in greater detail later in this session.


                   2. 1. 12 EXEMPT SECURITY
                                First, you must understand the meaning of the term exempt. When something is
                            exempt, it means that it is excused from certain requirements. When a security is exempt
                            under the USA, it does not have to be registered in order to be sold, and there are no
                            requirements to file advertising about the security with the Administrator. You will see
                            more later in this session.


                   2. 1. 13 EXEMPT TRANSACTION
                                Under the USA, an exempt transaction is one in which the nature of the sale is such
                            that registration with the Administrator and filing of advertising material is not required in
                            order for that transaction to take place. More to follow later in this session.


                   2. 1. 14 GUARANTEED
                               The term guaranteed means guaranteed as to payment of principal, interest, or divi-
                            dends, but not capital gains.


                   2. 1. 15 OFFER/OFFER TO SELL
                                The terms offer and offer to sell include every attempt or offer to dispose of, or solici-
                            tation of an offer to buy, a secu­rity or interest in a security for value.


                   2. 1. 16 SALE
                                 The term sale or sell includes every contract of sale of, contract to sell, or disposition
                            of, a security or interest in a security for value. In other words, the offer is the attempt, the
                            sale is when it is successful.


                   2. 1. 17 FRAUD
                                The term fraud means an intentional effort to deceive some­one for profit; not limited
                            to common-law deceit.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 51                                                                                                           7/15/2016 2:02:38 PM
     52         Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




             2. 1. 18 SRO
                                      This is the abbreviation for self-regulatory organization. The most prominent of these
                                 is the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), but there are others such as the
                                 Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (MSRB), the Chicago Board Options Exchange
                                 (CBOE), and the Investment Industry Regulatory Organization (IIRO) of Canada.


             2. 1. 19 SOLICITOR
                                     The term solicitor means any individual who, for compensation, acts as an agent of an
                                 investment adviser in referring potential clients. The next session will discuss when solici-
                                 tors must be registered as investment adviser representatives.


             2. 1. 20 ACCREDITED INVESTOR
                                     The term accredited investor is found in Rule 501 of the federal Securities Act of
                                 1933. It refers to a person who is not counted when computing the number of investors
                                 purchasing a private placement under Regulation D of that Act.
                                     Because it is a federal term, not one found in the Uniform Securities Act, on this
                                 exam, the term is basically used to confuse you as you will see when you go through our
                                 practice questions.


             2. 1. 21 REGISTRANT
                                     The term registrant is used in legal circles to refer to those securities professionals
                                 (BDs, IAs, agents, and IARs), or securities issuers, who are in the process of, or who have
                                 registered with the Administrator.


             2. 1. 22 INSTITUTION
                                      The term institution would include banks, trust companies, savings and loan associa-
                                 tions, insurance companies, investment companies, employee benefit plans with assets of
                                 not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000), and governmental agencies or instrumen-
                                 talities. Institutions are included in the term person, defined previously. The Act gener-
                                 ally affords less protection to these investors owing to their supposed greater investment
                                 sophistication.


             2. 1. 23 RETAIL CLIENT
                                     As you know, terminology is very important on this exam. A few questions use the
                                 term, retail client instead of noninstitutional client. Look for it and remember that retail
                                 clients need far more protection than institutional ones. Also, individuals who meet the
                                 standard of accredited investor are still retail rather than institutional clients.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 52                                                                                                        7/15/2016 2:02:38 PM
                                                                   Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)        53




                   2. 1. 24 NATIONAL SECURITIES MARKETS IMPROVEMENTS
                            ACT OF 1996 (NSMIA)
                                  Congress enacted the NSMIA in 1996 to promote efficiency in capital formation in
                              the financial markets. In effect, the act generally preempts states’ blue-sky laws, eliminat-
                              ing the dual system of state and federal registration of certain securities and investment
                              advisers.


                   2. 1. 25 STATE
                                  The term state means any of the 50 states, any territory or possession of the United
                              States (such as American Samoa , Guam, and the Virgin Islands), the District of Columbia,
                              and Puerto Rico.



                   2. 2      EXCLUSION FROM DEFINITIONS AND EXEMPTION
                             FROM REGISTRATION
                                  Understanding terms is not a mere semantic exercise. Definitions create jurisdiction.
                              Jurisdiction means that a person or security is covered or subject to the law. Exemptions
                              and exclusions affect persons covered by the act but provide for exemptions and exclusions
                              from provisions of the act. These distinctions must be kept in mind.


                   2. 2. 1    EXCLUSION FROM A DEFINITION
                                  Exclusion means excluded from, or not included in, a definition. For the purposes of
                              the USA, if a person is excluded from the definition of an agent, that person is not subject
                              to provisions of state law that refer to agents. Agent, as defined above, is any individual
                              other than a broker-dealer who represents a broker-dealer or issuer in effecting transac-
                              tions in securities.
                                  There are, however, situations in which a person who is representing an issuer in
                              securities transactions is not, by definition, an agent for purposes of the USA. How is this
                              accomplished? By excluding that person from the definition. Later in this session, we will
                              discuss the cases where this occurs.


                   2. 2. 2    EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION UNDER THE ACT
                                  Exemption in the USA means not being subject to a registration provision of the act
                              even though that person is otherwise covered by the act. For example, a person defined
                              as an investment adviser can be exempt from state registration requirements as an invest-
                              ment adviser because that person enjoys an exemption from state registration under fed-
                              eral law, such as in the case of a federal covered adviser.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 53                                                                                                            7/15/2016 2:02:39 PM
     54         Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                            Q
                  QUICK QUIZ 2.A                    True or False?

                                                    ____      1.	A final order may be entered only after opportunity for a hearing has
                                                                  been granted.

                                                    ____      2.	If an administrator determines that a registration statement for a
                                                                  security is incomplete, he may issue a cease and desist order.

                                                    ____      3.	Under the Uniform Securities Act, the city of Atlanta would be
                                                                  included in the definition of the term person.

                                                    ____      4.	The GEMCO Employees Retirement Plan currently has assets of
                                                                  $750,000. Under the Uniform Securities Act, the plan would be
                                                                  considered an institutional investor.

                                                    5.   What is the official designation of the person or agency that enforces the
                                                         USA in each state?
                                                         A.   Administrator
                                                         B.   Transfer agent
                                                         C.   Registrar
                                                         D.   Issuer

                                                    Quick Quiz answers can be found at the end of the session.




             2. 3           PERSONS SUBJECT TO STATE REGISTRATION
                                      Now that the basic terms used in the exam have been addressed, attention must now
                                 be directed to those persons who are not excluded or exempted from provisions of the act.
                                 The following are the four classes of securities professionals that fall under the jurisdiction
                                 of state securities laws:
                                 ■■ Broker-dealers—generally legal persons, such as corporations or partnerships
                                 ■■ Agents—always individuals (natural persons)
                                 ■■ Investment advisers—generally legal persons, such as corporations or partnerships
                                 ■■ Investment adviser representatives—always individuals (natural persons)

                                      In this session, we will focus on broker-dealers and their agents with investment advis-
                                 ers and their representatives receiving the attention in the next session.



                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                         On your exam, always keep in mind which of the four categories of persons
                                                    is the subject of the question. Rules that apply to agents, for example, are not the
                                                    same as those that apply to broker-dealers. You will be tested on your under-
                                                    standing of the distinctions between each class of person defined in this session.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 54                                                                                                                  7/15/2016 2:02:39 PM
                                                                          Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)        55




                   2. 3. 1          BROKER-DEALER
                                         A broker-dealer is defined in the USA as any person (think back to the broad defi-
                                    nition we gave you a few pages ago) engaged in the business of effecting transactions in
                                    securities for the accounts of others or for its own account. Any person (e.g., a securities
                                    firm, even one organized as a sole proprietorship) with an established place of business (an
                                    office) in the state that is in the business of buying and selling securities for the accounts
                                    of others (customers) and/or for its own proprietary account is a broker-dealer and must
                                    register in the state as such.
                                         In other words, broker-dealers are firms for which agents (registered representatives)
                                    work. They are firms that engage in securities transactions, such as sales and trading.
                                    When acting on behalf of their customers—that is, buying and selling securities for their
                                    clients’ accounts—broker-dealers act in an agency capacity. When broker-dealers buy and
                                    sell securities for their own accounts, called proprietary accounts, they act in a principal
                                    capacity as dealers.



                               ✓
                            TA K E N O T E              Individuals who buy and sell securities for their own accounts are not broker-
                                                    dealers because they are engaged in personal investment activity, not the busi-
                                                    ness of buying and selling securities for others. They are individual investors, not
                                                    securities dealers.




                                 !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                         One of the roles of a broker-dealer is underwriting (distributing) shares of
                                                    new securities for issuers. When they do that, they generally earn a spread (the
                                                    difference between the public offering price and what they pay the issuer) or
                                                    receive a commission on the sales, which they then use to pay their agents who
                                                    actually made the sales to the clients.

                                         As we covered in the previous session, broker-dealers, unless exempt, must register
                                    with the SEC. In addition, registration with the state(s) in which the broker-dealer does
                                    business is required unless qualifying for an exemption. The procedure is different for
                                    investment advisers, as you will learn in the next session. Investment advisers either reg-
                                    ister on the state or the federal level, never both. If registered with the SEC as a federal
                                    covered adviser, the states have no jurisdiction over the activities of the adviser other than
                                    in the case of fraudulent activity.


                        2. 3. 1. 1      Exclusions from the Definition of Broker-Dealer
                                        Broker-dealers are firms that buy and sell securities for others or themselves as a busi-
                                    ness. There are, however, many persons, legal and natural, that effect securities transac-
                                    tions that are excluded from the definition of broker-dealer for purposes of state regulation.
                                    Persons not included in the definition of broker-dealer are:
                                    ■■ agents;
                                    ■■ issuers; and
                                    ■■ banks, savings institutions, and trust companies (not engaged in broker-dealer activi-
                                        ties).




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 55                                                                                                                   7/15/2016 2:02:39 PM
     56         Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                     Domestic commercial banks and other financial institutions are generally excluded
                                 from the definition of a broker-dealer. However, with the adoption of the Gramm-Leach-
                                 Bliley Act in 1999, also known as the Financial Modernization Act, federal securities law
                                 adopted a functional approach to the regulation of financial institutions. Under the func-
                                 tional approach, those financial institutions that engage in brokerage-related securities
                                 activities are subject to SEC registration as broker-dealers as well as to applicable provi-
                                 sions of state securities law—the USA—that relate to broker-dealers.
                                     Today most banks and other financial institutions engage in securities activities
                                 through broker-dealer subsidiaries of the bank holding company. The broker-dealer sub-
                                 sidiaries of banks are, as a result, not excluded from the definition of a broker-dealer and
                                 therefore subject to the same securities regulations as other broker-dealers. Keep in mind
                                 that formation of these subsidiaries eliminates the need for the bank holding companies to
                                 register as broker-dealers. Their broker-dealer subsidiaries must, of course, register.



                            ✓
                        TA K E N O T E                   Keep in mind the distinction between a bank holding company and a wholly
                                                    owned commercial bank subsidiary. Commercial banks, the subsidiaries of bank
                                                    holding companies, do not have to register because they are excluded from the
                                                    definition of broker-dealer. When engaged in securities transactions with the
                                                    public, bank subsidiaries are subject to securities legislation as any other broker-
                                                    dealer.


                                 2. 3. 1. 1. 1 No Place of Business in the State
                                     There is another exclusion from the definition of broker-dealer. This exclusion relates
                                 to the location of the broker-dealer’s place of business. States exclude from the definition
                                 of broker-dealer those broker-dealers that:
                                 ■■ have no place of business in the state and deal exclusively with the issuers of the secu-
                                     rity involved in the transactions, other broker-dealers, and other financial institutions,
                                     such as banks, savings and loan associations, trust companies, insurance companies,
                                     investment companies, and employee benefit plans with assets of not less than $1 mil-
                                     lion ($1,000,000); and
                                 ■■ have no place of business in the state, but are licensed in a state where they have a
                                     place of business, and offer and sell securities in the state only with persons in the state
                                     who are existing customers and who are not residents of the state. This is sometimes
                                     referred to as the snowbird exemption and applies as well to agents, investment advisers,
                                     and investment adviser representatives.

                                     In other words, the USA excludes broker-dealers with no place of business in the state
                                 from the definition of a broker-dealer to allow those firms that deal exclusively with other
                                 financial institutions to engage in securities transactions in the state without registering.
                                 The reason for this exclusion is that the regulators understand that this category of inves-
                                 tor has a high level of investment sophistication and expertise and does not need the same
                                 degree of protection as the so-called little guy.
                                     The USA also allows broker-dealers to do business with existing customers who are
                                 temporarily in a state to avoid unnecessary multiple registrations. In most states, when an
                                 existing client legally changes residence to another state in which the broker-dealer (and/
                                 or the agent) is not registered, the firm (and/or agent) has 30 days during which it may




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 56                                                                                                                  7/15/2016 2:02:39 PM
                                                                           Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)        57




                                    continue to do business with that client without registration in the new state. Should it
                                    wish to continue to maintain that client, the broker-dealer (and/or agent) would have to
                                    register in that state.
                                        As long as your client has not changed state of residence, there is no time limit. For
                                    example, many “snowbirds” spend the entire winter in Florida, which is no problem for
                                    the firms they do business with “up North.” Or many people, after a couple of years in the
                                    workforce, decide to get an MBA. If they go out of state to a resident program for a year or
                                    two, that does not mean they’ve changed their state of residence, merely that they are not
                                    commuter students. Only when official residency is changed (new driver’s license or voter
                                    registration) does the 30-day rule apply.
                                        Notice how important language is here: If broker-dealers with no place of business
                                    in the state were defined as broker-dealers, they would be subject to state registration.
                                    But if such broker-dealers with no place of business in the state are not defined as bro-
                                    ker-dealers, those broker-dealers are not subject to the registration requirements of that
                                    state. Language and definitions determine jurisdiction. If a person or entity is defined as a
                                    broker-dealer, that person is covered by (subject to) the provisions of the act. If a person
                                    or entity is excluded from a definition, that person is not subject to (covered by) the act.



                               ✓
                            TA K E N O T E
                                                     Under the USA, you are a broker-
                                                     dealer if:
                                                                                                  Under the USA, you are not a broker-
                                                                                                  dealer if:
                                                     1. you have a place of business in the      1. you have no place of business in
                                                         state regardless of the nature of            the state AND
                                                         your clients; or
                                                     2. you have even 1 retail client in the     2. your only clients are: other BDs, in-
                                                         state.                                       stitutions, and issuers of the security
                                                                                                      involved in the transaction; or
                                                                                                  3. you are registered in a state where
                                                                                                      you do maintain a place of business
                                                                                                      and only do business in this state
                                                                                                      with existing clients who are not
                                                                                                      residents of this state (snowbirds).


                                    2. 3. 1. 1. 2 Using the Internet
                                        Another example that has recently been addressed by NASAA is broker-dealers and
                                    investment advisers using the internet. A firm’s website, considered advertising, can be
                                    seen everywhere. Does that mean the firm has a place of business in the state? Without get-
                                    ting too technical, there are several requirements to insure that the person is not deemed
                                    to be in the state.
                                    ■■ The communication clearly states that the person may only do business in this state if
                                        properly registered or exempt from registration.
                                    ■■ Any follow-up individualized responses with prospects in this state that involve either
                                        the effecting or attempting to effect transactions in securities, or the rendering of per-
                                        sonalized investment advice for compensation, as may be, will not be made without
                                        compliance with state broker-dealer, investment adviser, agent or IA representative
                                        registration requirements, or an applicable exemption or exclusion.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 57                                                                                                                    7/15/2016 2:02:39 PM
     58         Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                 ■■ The site may only make available general information, not specific advice or recom-
                                    mendations.
                                 ■■ In the case of an agent or IAR
                                      —— the affiliation with the broker-dealer or investment adviser of the agent or IAR is
                                         prominently disclosed within the communication,
                                      —— the broker-dealer or investment adviser with whom the agent or IAR is associated
                                         retains responsibility for reviewing and approving the content of any internet com-
                                         munication by an agent or IAR,
                                      —— the broker-dealer or investment adviser with whom the agent or IAR is associated
                                         first authorizes the distribution of information on the particular products and ser-
                                         vices through the internet communication, and
                                      —— in disseminating information through the internet communication, the agent or
                                         IAR acts within the scope of the authority granted by the broker-dealer or invest-
                                         ment adviser.

                                     What this basically means is that if you just generally advertise on the internet, you
                                 don’t have to be registered in the state. BUT, if you follow-up with advice (IAR) or offer-
                                 ing securities (agent), you either have to register or find some kind of exemption.



                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                         The exam focuses more on the exclusions from the definition of broker-deal-
                                                    er than on the definition itself. Know these exclusions well.




                            *
                      CASE STUDY                    Exclusion from the Definition of Broker-Dealer

                                                         Situation: First Securities Corporation is a registered broker-dealer with
                                                    offices in Illinois. Mr. Thompson, a registered agent in the Illinois office of First
                                                    Securities, recommends the purchase of ABC Shoes stock to his customer, Mr.
                                                    Bixby, an Illinois resident, who is temporarily on vacation in Hawaii. Mr. Bixby
                                                    agrees to the purchase of ABC Shoes, as well as other securities, while in Hawaii.
                                                         The Hawaiian state securities Administrator does not issue a cease and desist
                                                    order against First Securities for unlawfully selling securities as an unregistered
                                                    broker-dealer in Hawaii.
                                                         Analysis: The Hawaiian securities Administrator acted correctly by not issuing
                                                    a cease and desist order against First Securities. Under the USA, First Securities is
                                                    not required to register as a broker-dealer in Hawaii because it limits its business
                                                    to an existing customer, Mr. Bixby, who is temporarily in the state. Because First
                                                    Securities is properly registered in Illinois, it need not register in Hawaii, pro-
                                                    vided, of course, Mr. Bixby does not take up permanent residence there. In this
                                                    case, First Securities does not fall under the definition of broker-dealer in Hawaii
                                                    because it does not do business in Hawaii other than with an existing customer
                                                    temporarily in the state. In this situation, First Securities is not defined as a
                                                    broker-dealer in the state of Hawaii and therefore does not have to register as a
                                                    broker-dealer in Hawaii. Definitions determine jurisdiction.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 58                                                                                                                   7/15/2016 2:02:39 PM
                                                                             Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)        59




                        2. 3. 1. 2      Broker-Dealer Registration Requirements
                                         Under the USA, if a person is included in the definition of a broker-dealer, that per-
                                    son must register as a broker-dealer in the states where it does business. The USA is clear
                                    about broker-dealer registration. It states, “It is unlawful for any person to transact business
                                    in this state as a broker-dealer . . . unless he is registered under this Act.”
                                         This means every person (legal entity) that falls within the definition of a broker-
                                    dealer must register with the Administrator of the state. Again, keep in mind that if a
                                    person falls under one of the exclusions from the definition, that person or legal entity
                                    does not have to register in the state.
                                         In most jurisdictions, registration is accomplished by filing the SEC’s Form BD modi-
                                    fied to meet the needs of the state. If any material information on the BD becomes inac-
                                    curate, prompt notice must be given to the Administrator.



                               ✓
                            TA K E N O T E
                                                          In addition, at the time of registration of a broker-dealer, any partner, officer,
                                                     or director of the broker-dealer whose activities in the broker-dealer’s securities
                                                     business require registration as an agent is automatically registered as an agent
                                                     of the broker-dealer. This does not mean that the individual doesn’t have to take
                                                     an exam. It just means that when a new broker-dealer is organized or an existing
                                                     broker-dealer registers in a state for the first time, these individuals submit infor-
                                                     mation on the BD’s application that enables the Administrator to determine their
                                                     eligibility for registration so a separate application does not have to be filed. It is
                                                     also important to note that, unlike FINRA, there is no separate principal registra-
                                                     tion category for those in supervisory positions—they are all agents.




                              *
                            CASE STUDY               Who Is a Broker-Dealer?

                                                           Situation: First Securities Corporation of Illinois, (FSCI), sells municipal bonds
                                                     and equity securities to both the general public and other securities firms. FSCI
                                                     sells many of its municipal bonds to its biggest customer, Indiana Institutional
                                                     Services, Inc., (IISI), a broker-dealer located in Indiana. IISI has no offices in Illinois
                                                     and limits its business to banks and insurance companies.
                                                           First Securities Corporation discovers that Indiana Institutional Services is not
                                                     registered in Illinois. The president of First Securities Corporation asks the presi-
                                                     dent of IISI why his firm is not registered in Illinois. The president of IISI answers
                                                     that it is because they are not broker-dealers in Illinois. The president of FSCI is
                                                     baffled—it appears to him that IISI is indeed a broker-dealer.
                                                           Analysis: First Securities Corporation sells both exempt securities (municipal
                                                     bonds) and nonexempt securities (equities) to the general public and to other
                                                     broker-dealers. First Securities is a broker-dealer because it is a legal entity with a
                                                     place of business in the state that effects securities transactions for itself and for
                                                     the accounts of others and so must register in Illinois.
                                                           Like First Securities, IISI conducts broker-dealer activities. However, in Illinois
                                                     it confines the business to transactions between itself and institutional clients. The
                                                     USA specifically excludes from the definition of broker-dealer out-of-state broker-




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 59                                                                                                                      7/15/2016 2:02:39 PM
     60         Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                                    dealers who deal exclusively with institutions and have no place of business in the
                                                    state.
                                                          Although IISI is, in fact, conducting operations of a broker-dealer in Illinois, it
                                                    does not meet the definition as stated in the USA and, therefore, is not subject to
                                                    registration with the Illinois securities Administrator. If IISI were located or had an
                                                    office in Illinois, it would be a broker-dealer by definition and have to register as
                                                    such in Illinois.
                                                          What about the Indiana Administrator? Which of the firms must register?
                                                    Even though IISI only does business with institutions , because it has an office
                                                    in the state of Indiana, it would meet the definition of broker-dealer and would
                                                    have to register as such. What about First Securities? Well, it depends on several
                                                    factors we haven’t been told. Does First Securities maintain an office in Indiana?
                                                    If it does, registration is required. If it doesn’t and the only securities business it
                                                    does is with other broker-dealers and financial institutions, then it does not have
                                                    to register in Indiana. However, if any of its clients are individuals (sometimes
                                                    called retail clients on the exam), then registration is required.


                   2. 3. 1. 3         Financial Requirements
                                     The Administrator may establish net capital requirements for broker-dealers. Think
                                 of net capital as the broker-dealer’s liquid net worth. Net capital requirements of the states
                                 may not exceed those required by federal law, in this case, the Securities Exchange Act
                                 of 1934. The Administrator of a state may, however, require those broker-dealers that
                                 have custody of, or discretionary authority over, clients’ funds or securities to post surety
                                 bonds. Just as with net capital, the amount of surety bonds required by the states is limited
                                 to the amount set by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. No bond may be required of
                                 any broker-dealer whose net capital exceeds the amounts required by the Administrator.
                                     The NSMIA amended the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to add section 15(h)(1)
                                 which reads as follows:

                                          “No law, rule, regulation, or order, or other administrative action of any State or
                                      political subdivision thereof shall establish capital, custody, financial responsibility,
                                      making and keeping records, bonding, or financial or operational reporting require-
                                      ments for broker-dealers, that differ from, or are in addition to, the requirements in
                                      those areas established under the Exchange Act.”

                                     Stated simply, when it comes to broker-dealers, regardless of how many states in which
                                 they are registered, other than enforcing anti-fraud statutes, the Administrator has relin-
                                 quished most control to the SEC.



                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                        You will have to know that broker-dealers who meet the SEC’s net capital
                                                    or bonding requirements cannot be required to meet higher ones in any state in
                                                    which they do business.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 60                                                                                                                       7/15/2016 2:02:39 PM
                                                                         Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)        61




                               !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                      In lieu of a surety bond, the Administrator will accept deposits of cash or
                                                  securities.


                        2. 3. 1. 4   Disclosure of Capacity
                                      As stated at the beginning of this session, broker-dealers can operate either in a prin-
                                 cipal or agency capacity when executing transactions for their clients. When acting in a
                                 principal capacity, the BD is the contra party to the trade. That is, they are on the other
                                 side of the trade of the client. When the client is buying a security, the broker-dealer is
                                 selling it out of inventory. In this case, the firm’s profit comes from a markup. If the client
                                 is selling a security and the broker-dealer purchases it for its inventory, once again, the firm
                                 is acting as a principal (every trade has two principals—the buyer and the seller) and, in
                                 this case, the profit comes from a markdown.
                                      When acting in an agency capacity, the firm is acting like any other broker or agent
                                 (real estate broker, insurance agent, employment agent) in that they are simply putting
                                 the buyer and seller together. And, like all agents or brokers, they earn a commission.
                                      For the exam, it is important to know that broker-dealers must always indicate their
                                 capac­ity on the trade confirmation, sent no later than completion of the trade (settle-
                                 ment date). They will indicate if they acted as a broker (and always disclose the amount
                                 of commission) or if they acted as a principal (and depending on the circumstances—not
                                 tested—may have to indicate the markup or markdown).




                             Q
                        QUICK QUIZ 2.B            True or False?

                                                  ____     1.	In general, a person who effects transactions in securities for itself or
                                                               for the account of others in the course of business must register in
                                                               the state as a broker-dealer.

                                                  ____     2.	Under the Uniform Securities Act, an out-of-state firm that transacts
                                                               business with an established customer who is on vacation is not
                                                               considered a broker-dealer in the state in which the customer is on
                                                               vacation.

                                                  ____     3.	A person not defined as a broker-dealer in the state under the USA
                                                               need not register as such.

                                                  ____     4.	A broker-dealer registered with the SEC and several states must
                                                               meet the net capital standard of the state with the most stringent
                                                               requirements.

                                                  5.   Under the Uniform Securities Act, a broker-dealer is defined as any person
                                                       who
                                                       A. buys securities
                                                       B. sells securities
                                                       C. is in the business of effecting securities transactions for its own account
                                                          or for the accounts of others
                                                       D. is registered with the SEC




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 61                                                                                                                  7/15/2016 2:02:39 PM
     62         Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




             2. 3. 2             AGENT
                                      The USA defines an agent as any individual who represents a broker-dealer (legal
                                 entity) or an issuer (legal entity) in effecting (or attempting to effect) transactions in
                                 securities.
                                      Agents are individuals in a sales capacity who represent broker-dealers or issuers of
                                 securities. As agents, they act, usually on a commission basis, on behalf of others. Other
                                 than on this exam, agents are often referred to as registered representatives, whether they
                                 sell registered securities or securities exempt from registration.
                                      The use of the term individual here is important. Only an individual, or a natural per-
                                 son, can be an agent. A corporation, such as a brokerage firm, is not a natural person—it is
                                 a legal entity. The brokerage firm is the legal person (legal entity) that the agent (natural
                                 person) represents in securities transactions.


                   2. 3. 2. 1         Exclusions from Definition of Agent for
                                      Administrative Personnel
                                      Clerical and administrative (sometimes referred to as ministerial) employees of a bro-
                                 ker-dealer are generally not included in the definition of agent and, therefore, are not
                                 required to be registered. The logic for this exclusion from the definition should again be
                                 obvious. Clerical and administrative employees do not effect securities transactions with
                                 the public. They attend to the administration of the broker-dealer as a business organiza-
                                 tion. Under these circumstances, they are like employees of any other corporation. In fact,
                                 if the broker-dealer they work for wishes to pay their employees, including this group, a
                                 year-end bonus based on company profits (not related to any individual’s sales efforts), it
                                 would be allowable and would not require registration of the clerical personnel.
                                      The situation changes when administrative personnel take on securities-related func-
                                 tions. When they do so, they lose their exemption and must register as an agent.



                            ✓
                        TA K E N O T E                   Secretaries and sales assistants (known as ministerial personnel) are not
                                                    agents if their activities are confined to administrative activities, including re-
                                                    sponding to an existing client’s request for a quote. However, if secretaries or
                                                    sales assistants accept customer transactions or take orders over the phone, they
                                                    are engaging in securities transactions and are subject to registration as agents.




                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                         Cold callers working for a broker-dealer would have to register as an agent if
                                                    they did any more than ask if clients wanted to receive information. For example,
                                                    if they prequalified clients or suggested ways to receive more money for their
                                                    stocks or bonds, they would have to register as agents.
                                                         As is customary in other industries, broker-dealers frequently hire summer
                                                    interns. If these interns received any selling related compensation, such as $10 for
                                                    each exist­ing client solicited, they would be considered agents and would have to
                                                    register.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 62                                                                                                                  7/15/2016 2:02:39 PM
                                                                      Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)        63




                        2. 3. 2. 2   Exclusions from the Definition of Agent for Personnel
                                     Representing Issuers
                                      In many cases, individuals who represent issuers of securities are agents and therefore
                                 must register as such in the states in which they sell the issuers’ securities. When does
                                 something like this occur? In many cases, a local company is looking to raise some addi-
                                 tional capital—something in the range of several million dollars. Instead of going through
                                 the normal investment banking procedure (and paying all of those fees and commissions
                                 to the investment bankers), the company (known under the USA as the issuer) either
                                 uses its own employees or hires an outside sales force to sell the new security. However,
                                 individuals are excluded from the definition of agent and, therefore, are exempt from reg-
                                 istration in a state when representing issuers in effecting transactions:
                                 ■■ in certain exempt securities (listed below);
                                 ■■ exempt from registration; or
                                 ■■ with existing employees, partners, or directors of the issuer if no sales-related com-
                                      mission or other remuneration is paid or given directly or indirectly for soliciting any
                                      person in this state.

                                 2. 3. 2. 2. 1 Effecting Transactions in Exempt Securities
                                     Securities exempt from registration are called exempt securities. Although there are
                                 almost a dozen different securities that qualify for exemption under the Uniform Securities
                                 Act (they will be discussed later in this session), an individual is excluded from the term
                                 agent only when that individual represents an issuer in effecting transactions for the fol-
                                 lowing five exempt securities:
                                 ■■ Any security issued or guaranteed by the United States, any state, any political sub-
                                     division of a state, or any agency of one or more of these or any security issued or
                                     guaranteed by Canada, any Canadian province, or any political subdivision of any
                                     such province
                                 ■■ Securities of foreign governments with which the United States has diplomatic rela-
                                     tionships
                                 ■■ Any security issued by, or guaranteed by, any bank organized under the laws of the
                                     United States, or any bank, savings institution, or trust company organized and super-
                                     vised under the laws of any state
                                 ■■ Commercial paper rated in the top three categories by the major rating agencies with
                                     denominations of $50,000 or more with maturities of nine months or less
                                 ■■ Investment contracts issued in connection with employee’s stock purchase, savings,
                                     pensions, or profit-sharing plans

                                 2. 3. 2. 2. 2 Effecting Exempt Transactions
                                     An employee of an issuer is not an agent when representing an issuer in exempt trans-
                                 actions. Transactions exempt from registration are called exempt transactions. Some
                                 examples are:
                                 ■■ unsolicited brokerage transactions;
                                 ■■ transactions between the issuer and underwriters;




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 63                                                                                                               7/15/2016 2:02:39 PM
     64         Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                 ■■ transactions with financial institutions; or
                                 ■■ private placements.

                                     Exempt securities and exempt transactions will be covered in thorough detail later in
                                 this session.



                            ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         An employee of an issuer is not an agent when representing an issuer if the
                                                    issue is exempt from registration, as long as it is one of the five listed above. Ad-
                                                    ditionally, the employee is not an agent when representing an issuer in exempt
                                                    transactions (e.g., transactions between an underwriter and issuer).




                            ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         Keep in mind that an individual who works for an issuer of securities is ex-
                                                    cluded from the definition of agent when engaging in transactions with employ-
                                                    ees involving the issuer’s securities, provided that the individual is not compen-
                                                    sated for such partici­pation by commissions or other remuneration based either
                                                    directly or indirectly on the amount of securities sold. In other words, salaried
                                                    employees engaged in distributing their employers’ shares as part of an employee
                                                    benefit plan would not be required to register as agents because they are, by
                                                    definition, excluded from the definition. If such employees were compensated
                                                    on the basis of the number of shares sold, they would be defined as agents and
                                                    therefore would be subject to registration.




                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                         Individuals representing broker-dealers in a sales capacity must register as
                                                    agents whether they sell registered securities or securities exempt from registra-
                                                    tion.


                   2. 3. 2. 3         Agent Registration Requirements
                                     The registration requirements for an agent that is not exempt are similar to those for
                                 a broker-dealer. An application, generally the Form U-4, must be completed. One thing,
                                 however, that is on the agent’s application that does not apply to a broker-dealer is disclos-
                                 ing citizenship.
                                     The USA states, “It is unlawful for any person to transact business in this state as an
                                 agent unless he is registered under this act.” In other words, an individual may not conduct
                                 securities transactions in a state unless that person is properly registered in the state where
                                 he conducts business. This is true even when receiving unsolicited orders. If an agent does
                                 business in a state, she must be registered in that state, even if there is only one client.
                                 This is not like investment advisers and their representatives who, as we will learn in the
                                 next session, enjoy a de minimis exemption. Furthermore, the act makes it unlawful for
                                 any broker-dealer or issuer to employ an agent unless the agent is registered.
                                     So, what can an individual who has been hired to become an agent of a broker-dealer
                                 do while registration is pending? After all, one does not fill out the Form U-4 and become
                                 an agent immediately. Permitted activities would be those allowed to any other employee
                                 of the broker-dealer who is not required to be registered. That would include clerical func-




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 64                                                                                                                   7/15/2016 2:02:39 PM
                                                                        Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)        65




                                 tions, such as posting trade details to client accounts, or administrative activities, like
                                 assisting with research. As long as it does not involve customer contact relating to selling/
                                 offering securities or opening accounts, these “newbies” can hang around the office and
                                 try to make themselves useful. Of course, most of their time should be spent preparing to
                                 pass the exam.
                                      An agent’s registration is not effective during any period when the agent is not associ-
                                 ated with a broker-dealer registered in the state. Therefore, if the broker-dealer’s registra-
                                 tion is terminated, the agent is no longer considered licensed. The terminology depends
                                 on the specific state. In some cases, the agent’s license is placed in suspense. In other states,
                                 it is put on hold or some such similar language. Whatever the phrase, when the broker-
                                 dealer closes up shop, either voluntarily or involuntarily (think revocation of registration
                                 by the Administrator), the agent cannot function because there is no broker-dealer affili-
                                 ation. When an agent begins or terminates a connection with a broker-dealer or issuer, or
                                 begins or terminates those activities that make him an agent, the agent and the broker-
                                 dealer or issuer must promptly notify the Administrator.



                               !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                      When an agent shifts employment from one broker-dealer or issuer to
                                                  another, all three persons—the agent, the old employer, and the new employer—
                                                  must promptly notify the Administrator.


                        2. 3. 2. 4   Financial Requirements
                                    There are no financial requirements, or net worth requirements, to register as an
                                 agent. The Administrator may, however, require an agent to be bonded, particularly if the
                                 agent has discretion over a client’s account.




                              *
                            CASE STUDY            Agent as Defined by the USA

                                                        Situation: The City of Chicago issues bonds for the maintenance of local
                                                  recreational facilities. Purchasers have two choices: they can purchase the bonds
                                                  directly from the city through Ms. Stith (an employee of the city responsible for
                                                  selling the bonds), or they can purchase them from Mr. Thompson (an employee
                                                  of First Securities Corporation of Illinois). Neither Ms. Stith nor Mr. Thompson
                                                  charges a commission, although First Securities is remunerated with an underwrit-
                                                  ing fee.
                                                        Analysis: The City of Chicago is an issuer of exempt securities (municipal
                                                  bonds). Ms. Stith, as an employee of the issuer (City of Chicago), is not an agent
                                                  as defined in the USA because she is representing the issuer in the sale of an
                                                  exempt security. Therefore, Stith does not need to register as an agent with the
                                                  Administrator of Illinois. However, Thompson, as a representative of First Securi-
                                                  ties, must register with the Administrator because he represents a broker-dealer in
                                                  effecting securities transactions in the state. Representatives (agents of broker-
                                                  dealers) must register in the states where they sell securities.

                                     Exemptions from registration as an agent generally apply to representatives of issuers,
                                 rather than to representatives of broker-dealers.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 65                                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:02:39 PM
     66         Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                   2. 3. 2. 5         Multiple Registrations
                                      An individual may not act at any one time as an agent for more than one broker-dealer
                                 or for more than one issuer, unless the broker-dealers or issuers for whom the agent acts are
                                 affiliated by direct or indirect common control or the Administrator grants an exception.
                                 In the event an agent does wish to affiliate with a second broker-dealer, the agent would
                                 have to go through the registration process with the second firm in the same manner as the
                                 original application (filing another Form U-4).


                   2. 3. 2. 6         Limited Registration of Canadian Broker-dealers and Agents
                                      Provided the limited registration requirements enumerated below are met, a broker-
                                 dealer domiciled in Canada that has no office in this state may effect transactions in secu-
                                 rities with or for, or attempt to induce the purchase or sale of any security by:
                                 ■■ a person from Canada who is temporarily a resident in this state who was already a
                                      client of the broker-dealer; or
                                 ■■ a person from Canada who is a resident in this state, whose transaction is in a self-
                                      directed, tax-advantaged retirement plan in Canada of which the person is the holder
                                      or contributor. In Canada, the equivalent of an IRA is called a Registered Retirement
                                      Savings Plan (RRSP).

                                      An agent who will be representing a Canadian broker-dealer who registers under these
                                 provisions may effect transactions in securities in this state on the same basis as permitted
                                 for the broker-dealer.
                                      For the Canadian broker-dealer to register in this fashion, it must:
                                 ■■ file an application in the form required by the jurisdiction where it has its principal
                                      office in Canada;
                                 ■■ file a consent to service of process;
                                 ■■ provide evidence that it is registered in good standing in its home jurisdiction; and
                                 ■■ be a member of an SRO or stock exchange in Canada.

                                     Requirements for agents are the same, except that membership in an SRO or stock
                                 exchange is not relevant.
                                     However, just as with domestic broker-dealers, if there is no place of business in the
                                 state, there are no registration requirements if the only securities transactions are with
                                 issuers, other broker-dealers, and institutional clients.



                            ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         Renewal applications for Canadian broker-dealers and agents who file for
                                                    limited registration must be filed before December 1 each year.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 66                                                                                                           7/15/2016 2:02:39 PM
                                                                      Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)        67




                            Q
                        QUICK QUIZ 2.C         Here are examples of questions you might see on the exam:

                                               1.   Under the Uniform Securities Act, the term agent would include an individual
                                                    who represents an issuer in effecting non-exempt transactions in
                                                    A.   a city of Montreal general obligation bond
                                                    B.   common stock offered by a commercial bank
                                                    C.   a New Jersey Turnpike Revenue bond
                                                    D.   commercial paper with a 19-month maturity

                                               2.   Under the Uniform Securities Act, the term agent would include
                                                    A. an individual who represents an issuer in an exempt transaction
                                                    B. an individual who represents a broker-dealer in a transaction in an
                                                       exempt security
                                                    C. a receptionist for a broker-dealer who directs calls for trade information
                                                       to the appropriate individual
                                                    D. the vice president of personnel for a national brokerage firm

                                               Write A if the person is an agent and B if not.

                                               ____      3.	Person who effects transactions in municipal securities on behalf of a
                                                             broker-dealer

                                               ____      4. An agent’s salaried secretary who takes orders

                                               ____      5.	An employee of a bank that is issuing shares who receives a commis-
                                                             sion for selling the bank’s securities

                                               ____      6.	An individual who represents her nonexempt employer in the sale of
                                                             its securities to existing employees for a commission

                                               ____      7.	A person who represents an issuer in effecting transactions with
                                                             underwriters

                                               8.   Under the Uniform Securities Act, an individual licensed as an agent by the
                                                    state may NOT
                                                    A. simultaneously represent two different unrelated broker-dealers in the
                                                       same transaction
                                                    B. be licensed by both an independent insurance company and a securities
                                                       broker-dealer
                                                    C. be registered with two broker-dealers under common control
                                                    D. be registered with a licensed real estate broker as well as with a licensed
                                                       securities broker-dealer



                   2. 3. 3     INVESTMENT ADVISER
                                   Under the USA, an investment adviser is defined as any person who, for compensa-
                               tion and as part of a regular business, engages in the business of advising others as to the
                               value of securities or as to the advisability of investing in or selling them. The advice can
                               be delivered in person, through publications or writings, or through research reports con-
                               cerning securities.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 67                                                                                                               7/15/2016 2:02:40 PM
     68         Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                     Advice given on investments not defined as securities, such as rare coins, art, and real
                                 estate, is not investment advice covered by the USA or other securities legislation. As a
                                 result, persons providing such advice are not investment advisers. Again, definitions are
                                 crucial for determining whether an activity is subject to securities law or not.
                                     To be an investment adviser under both state and federal securities law, a person must:
                                 ■■ provide advice about securities (not about jewelry, rare coins, or real estate);
                                 ■■ provide that advice as part of an ongoing business (hang out a shingle and have an
                                     office for conducting business); and
                                 ■■ receive compensation (actually get paid for the advice).



                            ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         In most cases, investment advisers are legal persons—that is, partnerships or
                                                    corporations that provide investment advice or portfolio management services
                                                    on an ongoing basis. Investment adviser representatives work for investment
                                                    advisers, just as registered agents work for a broker-dealer. An individual can be
                                                    an investment adviser if he operates as a sole proprietorship and is registered as
                                                    both an investment adviser and the only investment adviser representative of the
                                                    business.


                   2. 3. 3. 1         Investment Adviser Representative
                                     An investment adviser representative is any individual who represents a state-regis-
                                 tered investment adviser or federal covered investment adviser performing duties related
                                 to the giving of or soliciting for advisory services.



                            ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         The subject of investment advisers and their representatives will be covered
                                                    in greater detail in the next session.

                                      In our many years of preparing applicants for this exam, one thing we have observed
                                 is that many students do not have a clear idea of the difference between a broker-dealer
                                 and an investment adviser and, similarly, between an agent and an investment adviser
                                 representative. Perhaps the following will help:




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 68                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:02:40 PM
                                                                         Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)        69




                                                         Broker-dealer                       Investment Adviser
                                               ■■ Primary business function          ■■ Primary business function is
                                                  is executing transactions in          giving advice
                                                  securities                         ■■ Compensation is earned in the
                                               ■■ Compensation is earned in             form of fees or other charges,
                                                  the form of commissions and           generally based on the amount
                                                  markups (markdowns)                   of assets managed
                                                             Agents                                  IARs
                                               ■■ Individuals employed by            ■■ Individuals employed by
                                                  brokers/dealers to handle their       investment advisers to give
                                                  customer orders to buy or sell        advice to their clients
                                                  securities                         ■■ After an IAR advises a client
                                               ■■ Separate function from an IAR         about a specific security, the
                                                  (although many in large firms         next step is to contact the
                                                  wear both hats)                       broker-dealer where that client
                                                                                        maintains a brokerage account
                                                                                        to give the buy/sell order to an
                                                                                        agent




                               ✓
                            TA K E N O T E
                                                        Broker-dealers and investment advisers perform two separate functions (al-
                                                    though many large firms do wear both hats): that of giving the advice and then
                                                    executing the transaction.




                   2. 4         GENERAL REGISTRATION PROCEDURES
                                        Any person who meets the definition of broker-dealer, agent, investment adviser, or
                                    investment adviser representative must register with the state. To register with the state
                                    securities Administrator, a person must:
                                    ■■ submit an application;
                                    ■■ provide a consent to service of process;
                                    ■■ pay filing fees;
                                    ■■ post a bond (if required by the Administrator); and
                                    ■■ take and pass an examination if required by the Administrator. The examination may
                                        be written, oral, or both.


                   2. 4. 1          SUBMITTING AN APPLICATION
                                        All persons must complete and submit an initial application (as well as renewals) to
                                    the state securities Administrator. The application must contain whatever information
                                    the Administrator may require by rule, and may include:
                                    ■■ form and place of business (broker-dealers and investment advisers);
                                    ■■ proposed method of doing business;




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 69                                                                                                                  7/15/2016 2:02:40 PM
     70         Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                 ■■ a list of all jurisdictions in which the applicant is registering (or already registered);
                                 ■■ qualifications and business history (broker-dealers and investment advisers must
                                    include the qualifications and history of partners, officers, directors, and other persons
                                    with controlling influence over the organization);
                                 ■■ court-issued injunctions and administrative orders;
                                 ■■ adjudications by the SEC or any securities SRO within the past 10 years;
                                 ■■ convictions of misdemeanors involving a security or any aspect of the securities busi-
                                    ness;
                                 ■■ felony convictions, whether securities related or not;
                                 ■■ financial condition and history (broker-dealers and investment advisers only, but only
                                    of the firm—no credit reports on the officers);
                                 ■■ any current unsatisfied liens and judgments must be shown as well as any declaration
                                    of bankruptcy within the past 10 years;
                                 ■■ any information to be furnished or disseminated to any client or prospective client, if
                                    the applicant is an investment adviser; and
                                 ■■ in the case of an individual registrant (agent or investment adviser representative),
                                    citizenship information.

                                     The Administrator also may require that an applicant publish an announcement of
                                 the registration in one or more newspapers in the state.



                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                        Please note that, unlike FINRA (NASD) registration requirements, fingerprints
                                                    do not have to be submitted.




                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                         If an agent terminates employment with a broker-dealer, both parties must
                                                    notify the Administrator promptly. If an agent terminates employment with
                                                    one broker-dealer to join another broker-dealer, all three parties must notify the
                                                    Administrator. One way to remember this is that in the case of an agent, the first
                                                    letter, A, tells us that All the parties involved must notify the Administrator.



             2. 4. 2             PROVIDE A CONSENT TO SERVICE OF PROCESS
                                     New applicants for registration must provide the Administrator of every state in which
                                 they intend to register with a consent to service of process. The consent to service of
                                 process appoints the Administrator as the applicant’s attorney to receive and process non-
                                 criminal securities-related complaints against the applicant. Under the consent to service
                                 of process, all legal documents (e.g., subpoenas or warrants) received by the Administrator
                                 have the same legal effect as if they had been served personally on the applicant.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 70                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:02:40 PM
                                                                            Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)        71




                               ✓
                            TA K E N O T E
                                                          The consent to service of process is submitted with the initial application and
                                                     remains in force permanently. It does not need to be supplied with each renewal
                                                     of a registration.




                                 !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                         If a securities professional is registering in six states, the Administrator of
                                                     each state must receive a consent to service of process.



                   2. 4. 3          PAYMENT OF INITIAL AND RENEWAL FILING FEES
                                         States require filing fees for initial applications as well as for renewal applications. If
                                    an application is withdrawn or denied, the Administrator is entitled to retain a portion of
                                    the fee. Filing fees for broker-dealers, investment advisers, and their representatives need
                                    not be identical. A registered broker-dealer, covered adviser, or state registered investment
                                    adviser may file an application for registration of a successor, whether or not the successor
                                    is then in existence, for the unexpired portion of the year. There is no filing or registra-
                                    tion fee until renewal of the firm’s license, but the successor firm would have to file a new
                                    consent to service of process.
                                         The renewal date for all registrations is December 31, and there is no proration of fees.



                                 !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                          One of the tricks the exam likes to play is asking about a person who
                                                     registers in November. When does that registration come up for renewal? Well,
                                                     even if it is only a month or so later, every registration of a securities professional
                                                     comes up for renewal on the NEXT December 31, so your first year is always a
                                                     short one.



                   2. 4. 4          EFFECTIVENESS OF REGISTRATION
                                         Unless a legal proceeding is instituted or the applicant is notified that the application
                                    is incomplete, the license of a broker-dealer, agent, investment adviser, or investment
                                    adviser representative becomes effective at noon, 30 days after the later of the date an
                                    application for licensing is filed and is complete or the date an amendment to an applica-
                                    tion is filed and is complete. An application is complete when the applicant has furnished
                                    information responsive to each applicable item of the application. The Administrator will
                                    notify the employing firm of effectiveness, and they will tell the new registrants when they
                                    are “good to go.” By rule or by order, the Administrator may authorize an earlier effective
                                    date of licensing. In other words, there could be an occasion where, in effect, a person was
                                    the subject of a rush order.
                                         In the same manner as a registration becomes effective on the 30th day after applica-
                                    tion, a request to withdraw registration also becomes effective on the 30th day after sub-
                                    mission. However, should there be any legal proceedings in progress, the withdrawal will
                                    be held up until resolution of the issue. In any event, once withdrawal has taken place, the
                                    Administrator has jurisdiction of the former registrant for a period of one year.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 71                                                                                                                     7/15/2016 2:02:40 PM
     72         Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                         Although withdrawal of registration normally takes 30 days, the Administra-
                                                    tor has the power to shorten that period, in effect permitting a rush order.




                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                         Although successful completion of the Series 66 examination may satisfy a
                                                    portion of the requirements of a particular state, it does not convey the right to
                                                    transact business prior to being granted a license or registration by that state.




                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                        While registration as an agent (or IAR) is pending, the individual may not
                                                    take part in any activity that would require registration. Clerical work (filing cus-
                                                    tomer records) or assisting internally with research would be permitted.




                            Q
                  QUICK QUIZ 2.D                    True or False?

                                                    ____        1.	A consent to service of process must be submitted with each renewal
                                                                    application.

                                                    ____        2.	A Canadian broker-dealer, properly registered with the Administrator
                                                                    of the province in which he is headquartered and with no office in
                                                                    the state, may do business with his customers who are on a skiing
                                                                    vacation in Vail without registering with the Colorado Administrator.

                                                    ____        3.	When a securities professional registers in a state, he must provide
                                                                    the state Administrator with a list of all the states where he intends
                                                                    to register.

                                                    4.   According to the Uniform Securities Act, a consent to service of process must
                                                         accompany which of the following?
                                                           I.   Agent’s initial registration application
                                                          II.   Civil complaint against a broker-dealer
                                                         III.   Broker-dealer’s initial registration application
                                                         IV.    A cease and desist order
                                                          A.    I and III
                                                          B.    I and IV
                                                          C.    II and III
                                                          D.    II and IV



             2. 4. 5             POSTREGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS
                                     Once registered, broker-dealers are subject to numerous administrative requirements
                                 to keep their registrations current and in good order.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 72                                                                                                                    7/15/2016 2:02:40 PM
                                                                       Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)        73




                        2. 4. 5. 1   Books and Records
                                     Every registered broker-dealer must make and keep such accounts, blotters (records
                                 of original entry), correspondence (including emails), memoranda, papers, books, and
                                 other records as the state Administrator by rule prescribes. All records so required must
                                 be preserved for three years (the first two years easily accessible in the principal office)
                                 unless the Administrator specifies otherwise. These records must be current, complete,
                                 and accurate. Broker-dealers are obligated to promptly file correcting amendments. State
                                 securities Administrators cannot impose recordkeeping requirements that are in excess of
                                 those prescribed by the SEC.
                                     The records broker-dealers are required to maintain are subject to periodic, special, or
                                 other examinations by representatives of the Administrator of the state where the broker-
                                 dealer’s principal office is located or of any other state in which the broker-dealer is regis-
                                 tered as the Administrator deems necessary or appropriate in the public interest.
                                     If the information contained in any document filed with the Administrator is or
                                 becomes inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, the registrant must file a cor-
                                 recting amendment promptly.



                               !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                      Included in the recordkeeping requirements are electronic communications,
                                                 particularly emails. However, it is not required to maintain emails of a personal
                                                 nature sent to non-clients (e.g., “Honey, I’m stuck at the office and will be late
                                                 for dinner”).


                                 2. 4. 5. 1. 1 Website Storage
                                      Websites are treated as would be any other advertisement. So, the original site design
                                 is kept for three years and, whenever revised, the new copy is maintained and starts a new
                                 retention requirement for that copy. Therefore, you will likely have several different ver-
                                 sions in your advertising file at the same time.



                               !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                     Although it is required to keep all records relating to customers, there are no
                                                 requirements to keep copies of their tax returns.



                   2. 4. 6       CORRESPONDENCE AND SOCIAL MEDIA INCLUDING
                                 ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS (EMAILS AND TEXT
                                 MESSAGES)
                                     It should be clear that disclosure and fairness are the primary themes underlying all
                                 communications with customers. Use of social media websites for business purposes should
                                 be treated no differently from any other business-related electronic communication. Firms
                                 must ensure they have sufficient systems, policies, and procedures to supervise, review, and
                                 retain business communications made using social media sites. In this final segment of this
                                 unit, we will address several of the specific methods used to communicate with both exist-
                                 ing and prospective clients.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 73                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:02:40 PM
     74         Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                     Communication with customers has historically been through written correspon-
                                 dence, while the traditional way of reaching prospects has been through print, TV, and
                                 radio advertising. In the 21st century, however, snail mail has given way to email, texting,
                                 and the broker-dealer’s website. Prospects are being reached through various social net-
                                 works as well as the internet.
                                     At the time of this printing, NASAA’s primary concern with social media has been
                                 alerting investors to the risks. Although some of that may be tested, it is probable that the
                                 Series 65’s focus will be on usage of social media by securities professionals. As has been
                                 done with other topics not directly addressed by NASAA, we will rely on the policies
                                 adopted by other regulators. But first, let’s look at some of NASAA’s comments regarding
                                 investor awareness.


                   2. 4. 6. 1         Investor Concerns Regarding Social Media
                                     Social networking in the internet age allows people to connect to one another more
                                 quickly and easily than ever before. Investment promoters increasingly are logging on to
                                 find investors and their money.
                                     The role of the securities professional is to help protect clients from falling prey to the
                                 many phony schemes found on social networks.
                                     While social networking helps connect people with others who share similar interests
                                 or views, con artists infiltrate these social networks looking for victims. By joining and
                                 actively participating in a social network or community, the con artist builds credibility
                                 and gains the trust of other members of the group. In online social networks, a con artist
                                 can establish this trust and credibility more quickly. The scammer has immediate access
                                 to potential victims through their online profiles, which may contain sensitive personal
                                 information such as their dates or places of birth, phone numbers, home addresses, reli-
                                 gious and political views, employment histories, and even personal photographs.
                                     The con artist takes advantage of how easily people share background and personal
                                 information online and uses it to make a skillful and highly targeted pitch. The scam can
                                 spread rapidly through a social network as the con artist gains access to the friends and
                                 colleagues of the initial target.

                                 2. 4. 6. 1. 1       Online Red Flags for Investors
                                 ■■ Promises of high returns with no risk. Many online scams promise unreasonably
                                    high short-term profits. Guarantees of returns around 2% a day, 14% a week, or 40% a
                                    month are too good to be true. Remember that risk and reward go hand in hand.
                                 ■■ Offshore operations. Many scams are headquartered offshore, making it more difficult
                                    for regulators to shut down the scam and recover investors’ funds.
                                 ■■ E-currency sites. If investors have to open an e-currency account to transfer money,
                                    use caution. These sites may not be regulated, and con artists use them to cover up
                                    money trails.
                                 ■■ Recruit friends. Most cons will offer bonuses if investors recruit their friends into the
                                    scheme.
                                 ■■ Professional websites with little to no information. These days anyone can put up a
                                    website. Scam sites may look professional, but they offer little to no information about
                                    the company’s management, location, or details about the investment.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 74                                                                                                          7/15/2016 2:02:40 PM
                                                                       Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)        75




                                 ■■ No written information. Online scam promoters often fail to provide a prospectus or
                                    other form of written information detailing the risks of the investment and procedures
                                    to get the investor’s money out.
                                 ■■ Testimonials from other group members. Scam artists frequently pay out high returns
                                    to early investors using money from later arrivals. This type of scam is a Ponzi scheme.
                                    Fraud aimed at groups of people who share similar interests is called affinity fraud.


                        2. 4. 6. 2   Regulatory Concerns About Social Media
                                      Both the SEC and FINRA have established policies, most of which are used as the
                                 basis for disciplinary actions when the Administrator’s staff conducts an examination of
                                 broker-dealers and investment advisers located in his state.
                                      FINRA has offered guidance to broker-dealers and registered personnel in their
                                 notices to members regarding the use of different technologies and devices for the deliv­ery
                                 of business communications. As the technology, communications platforms, and devices
                                 are ever-changing, so will be the guidance, and FINRA will continue to supply interpre-
                                 tive materials to assist in that respect. Currently, the use of email, instant messaging,
                                 chat rooms, blogs, bulletin boards, and websites—including social networking sites such as
                                 Facebook, LinkedIn, and Twitter—are all included within FINRA’s guidance.
                                      While the challenge is generally to determine which category of public communica-
                                 tion any piece falls under to determine its supervisory and filing requirements (retail, cor-
                                 respondence, or institutional), FINRA has said that it will always be the content delivered
                                 that ultimately deter­mines this, and not the technology, platform, or device used to deliver
                                 it. In this light, FINRA reminds members that compliance responsibilities when commu-
                                 nicating via the internet or other electronic media are the same as in face-to-face discus-
                                 sions or in written communications with the public. Therefore, all existing FINRA rules
                                 and regulations applicable to communica­tions with the public would also be applicable
                                 to communications delivered electronically by any technology or device if the content is
                                 business related. In addition, registered representatives (agents) must be aware of internal
                                 firm policies and procedures that may restrict or prohibit the use of certain electronic com-
                                 munications, and in those instances, FINRA directs that employees of the firm must abide
                                 by the firm’s internal policies.
                                      Although social media has been around for some time, it has now caught the attention
                                 of the SEC (and every other regulator, for that matter). You might ask, “Why should I be
                                 concerned with my emails or Facebook posts?” Well, here are just a couple of examples of
                                 how and why the regulators react.
                                      The problem for regulated financial institutions is that inappropriate use of email and
                                 other social media can mean non-compliance with government and industry regulations,
                                 resulting in hefty fines, potential loss of business, and fraud. A few years ago, a major inter-
                                 national bank lost nearly €4.9 billion in fraudulent trades by a rogue employee that used
                                 instant messaging to manage the transactions. On a smaller level, in early 2016, an agent
                                 was fined $15,000 and suspended from association with any broker-dealer for a period of
                                 two years (the maximum period under FINRA rules) for sending an unapproved email to
                                 prospective clients. During the same time period, a broker-dealer was fined $1.1 million,
                                 and one of its agents was fined $50,000, for failure to retain emails as required. So, this is
                                 serious business to the regulators.
                                      You need to know that agents are duty bound to follow the rules and regulations sur-
                                 rounding electronic communications, even during their own time, if they are identifiable
                                 as a representative of the securities firm. Members of the marketing team might under-




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 75                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:02:40 PM
     76         Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                 stand what is appropriate to post to Facebook or what process to follow to post, but, with-
                                 out proper training, average agents may not. Their posts or photographs from weekend
                                 parties might not be suitable content.

                                 2. 4. 6. 2. 1 Review and Supervision of Electronic Communications
                                     When it comes to review and supervision, it is important to note that the terms elec-
                                 tronic communications, email, and electronic correspondence may be used interchangeably
                                 and can include such forms of electronic communications as instant messaging and text
                                 messaging.


             2. 4. 7             ADVERTISING
                                     NASAA considers it to be an unethical business practice to use any advertising or
                                 sales presentation in such a fashion as to be deceptive or misleading. An example of such
                                 practice would be:
                                 ■■ a distribution of any nonfactual data;
                                 ■■ any material or presentation based on conjecture;
                                 ■■ unfounded or unrealistic claims in any brochure, flyer, or display by words, pictures, or
                                     graphs; or
                                 ■■ anything otherwise designed to supplement, detract from, supersede, or defeat the
                                     purpose or effect of any prospectus or disclosure.

                                      One way in which this violation occurs is when a broker-dealer or agent prepares a
                                 sales brochure for a new issue but includes only the positive information from the prospec-
                                 tus. Leaving out risk factors and other potentially deal-killing information is prohibited.
                                 Somewhat related, and also prohibited, is highlighting or making any other marks on a
                                 prospectus to draw attention to key points.
                                      As will be covered later in this session, the Administrator may by rule or order require
                                 the filing advertisement and sales literature unless the security or transaction is exempted
                                 or is a federal covered security.


                   2. 4. 7. 1         Broker-Dealer Advertising
                                     Included in advertising is a firm’s website. Earlier in this session, we described the con-
                                 ditions related to determining if a broker-dealer was considered to have a place of business
                                 in the state (and required to register) or not. You should go back and review that material.
                                     Whether through the website or other social media, an important form of communica-
                                 tions with the public is the making of recommendations.
                                     A logical question is, do recommendations made through social media come under
                                 the same suitability constraints as any other recommendation? The reply is just what you
                                 would expect: of course they do. But it is not always obvious when a particular commu-
                                 nication constitutes a recommendation for purposes of the suitability rule. Because so
                                 much hinges on what FINRA considers to be a recommendation, let’s look further at some
                                 examples of what is and what is not a recommendation.
                                     In addition to when a member acts merely as an order-taker regarding a particular
                                 transaction (an unsolicited transaction, which we know is an exempt transaction—




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 76                                                                                                          7/15/2016 2:02:40 PM
                                                                 Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)        77




                            exempt from the registration and advertising filing requirements under the USA), the
                            policy generally would view the following activities and communications as falling outside
                            the definition of recommendation.
                            ■■ A member creates a website that is available to customers or groups of customers. The
                                website has research pages or electronic libraries that contain research reports (which
                                may include buy-sell recommendations from the author of the report), news, quotes,
                                and charts that customers can obtain or request.
                            ■■ A member has a search engine on its website that enables customers to sort through
                                the data available about the performance of a broad range of stocks and mutual funds,
                                company fundamentals, and industry sectors. The data is not limited to, and does not
                                favor, securities in which the member makes a market or has made a buy recommenda-
                                tion. Customers use and direct this tool on their own. Search results from this tool may
                                rank securities using any criteria selected by the customer, and may display current
                                news, quotes, and links to related sites.
                            ■■ A member provides research tools on its website that allow customers to screen through
                                a wide universe of securities (e.g., all exchange-listed and Nasdaq securities) or an
                                externally recognized group of securities (e.g., certain indexes) and to request lists of
                                securities that meet broad, objective criteria (e.g., all companies in a certain sector
                                with 25% annual earnings growth). The member does not impose limits on the man-
                                ner in which the research tool searches through a wide universe of securities, nor does
                                it control the generation of the list in order to favor certain securities. For instance,
                                the member does not limit the universe of securities to those in which it makes a mar-
                                ket or for which it has made a buy recommendation. Similarly, the algorithms for these
                                tools are not programmed to produce lists of securities based on subjective factors that
                                the member has created or developed, nor do the algorithms, for example, produce
                                lists that favor those securities in which the member makes a market or for which the
                                member has made a buy recommendation.
                            ■■ A member allows customers to subscribe to emails or other electronic communica-
                                tions that alert customers to news affecting the securities in the customer’s portfolio
                                or on the customer’s watch list. Such news might include price changes, notice of pre-
                                scheduled events (such as an imminent bond maturation), or generalized information.
                                The customer selects the scope of the information that the firm will send to him.

                                 On the other hand, FINRA generally would view the following communications as
                            falling within the definition of recommendation:
                            ■■ A member sends a customer-specific electronic communication (e.g., an email or pop-
                                 up screen) to a targeted customer or targeted group of customers, encouraging the
                                 particular customer(s) to purchase a security.
                            ■■ A member sends its customers an email stating that customers should be invested in
                                 stocks from a particular sector (such as technology) and urges customers to purchase
                                 one or more stocks from a list with buy recommendations.
                            ■■ A member provides a portfolio analysis tool that allows a customer to indicate an
                                 investment goal and input personalized information such as age, financial condition,
                                 and risk tolerance. The member, in this instance, then sends the customer a list of
                                 specific securities the customer could buy or sell to meet the investment goal the cus-
                                 tomer has indicated.
                            ■■ A member uses data-mining technology (the electronic collection of information on
                                 website users) to analyze a customer’s financial or online activity—whether or not it is




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 77                                                                                                          7/15/2016 2:02:40 PM
     78         Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                      known by the customer—and then, based on those observations, sends (or “pushes”)
                                      specific investment suggestions that the customer purchase or sell a security.

                                     It is important to keep in mind that these examples are meant only to provide guidance
                                 and are not an exhaustive list of communications that FINRA does or does not consider to
                                 be recommendations. They recognize that many other types of electronic communications
                                 are not easily characterized. In addition, changes to the factual suppositions upon which
                                 these examples are based (or the existence of additional factors) could alter the determina-
                                 tion of whether similar communications may or may not be viewed as recommendations.
                                     Broker-dealers, therefore, should analyze all relevant facts and circumstances to deter-
                                 mine whether a communication is a recommendation, and they should take the necessary
                                 steps to fulfill their suitability obligations.


             2. 4. 8             ISSUES RELATED TO AGENTS
                                     While much of the supervisory burden revolves around broker-dealer use of various
                                 social media tools, the nitty-gritty, day-to-day work relates to their agents. Some things to
                                 be aware of include the following.
                                 ■■ In addition to computers in the office, personal devices (Blackberry, iPhone, Android,
                                     etc.) used to communicate with clients in a social media setting are covered by the
                                     rules.
                                 ■■ Depending on the nature of the media, prior approval by a supervisory person may
                                     or may not be required. For example, an “unscripted” participation in an interactive
                                     electronic forum (such as Twitter) comes within the definition of retail communication,
                                     which does not require prior supervisory approval. On the other hand, a LinkedIn
                                     page would probably require pre-approval.
                                 ■■ Look out for the red flags. Certain activities, such as linking to third-party sites or
                                     receiving data feeds from outside sources could contain information that FINRA con-
                                     siders objectionable.
                                 ■■ It is not the device or technology that determines if a piece delivered by a broker-
                                     dealer or any agent is subject to approval and recordkeeping. Rather, it should always
                                     be the content that determines if a piece delivered by an agent is subject to approval
                                     and recordkeeping.
                                 ■■ FINRA suggests that Twitter posts are easy to monitor, but sites such as Facebook
                                     are not, given what they’ve termed entanglement issues (i.e., the firm or its personnel
                                     is involved with the preparation of a third-party post) and the challenges they pose.
                                     Essentially, who is responsible for links to a third-party site, and who is responsible for
                                     third-party postings to an agent’s Facebook page?
                                 ■■ Specifically regarding Twitter, posts do not need supervisory pre-approval except for an
                                     agent’s initial tweet.
                                 ■■ LinkedIn is considered different from Facebook, as it is more of a business networking
                                     site than a social site. With that, FINRA believes that information limited to your cur-
                                     rent position, past positions, and job responsibilities allow the site to be left unmoni-
                                     tored as the member firm would have no responsibility regarding that content for any
                                     individual. However, if testimonials are used on the site (“Joe is the best stockbroker
                                     in the world,” or “I’ve made a ton of money because of Joe’s recommendations”), or if
                                     recommendations are posted on the site, then that would make it a business site that
                                     the member is now responsible for.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 78                                                                                                          7/15/2016 2:02:40 PM
                                                                       Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)        79




                        2. 4. 8. 1   Supervisory Actions to Be Taken by the Broker-Dealer
                                     Prior to allowing associated persons to use social media for business purposes, a firm’s
                                 policies and procedures must provide for personnel training and education relating to the
                                 parameters of permitted use. Both supervisory personnel and agents need to understand
                                 the difference between interactive and static content, between business and non-business
                                 communications, and whether the communication is a retail communication requiring
                                 pre-approval. A firm should consider requiring training in the use of social media prior
                                 to permitting use. At a minimum, a firm that permits use of social media sites must hold
                                 annual training as part of its continuing education obligations. Any such training will
                                 reinforce personnel understanding of the firm’s policies and procedures as applied to this
                                 continuously evolving technology and, in turn, limit the firm’s compliance risks.
                                     One of the unintended consequences of the growth of social media has been exposure
                                 to privacy issues. The firm’s social media policies should include relevant privacy issues.
                                 We will cover those in the next unit when we discuss cybersecurity and data protection.
                                     To summarize, because the technology behind social media continues to advance at
                                 such a rapid pace, potential damage to both the firm and employee exist. To mitigate
                                 these, it is suggested that firm policies should:
                                 ■■ be committed to writing and communicated firmwide;
                                 ■■ be written in a clear and concise manner so as to eliminate confusion;
                                 ■■ define the responsibilities of all concerned parties, from registered representatives
                                     (agents) to principals, to minimize confusion and maximize expectations; and
                                 ■■ clearly describe the monitoring tools to be used by the member firm.

                                     Since social media technology continues to evolve, the potential for reputational and
                                 financial loss from any employee or firm mistake is difficult to quantify. Prior to venturing
                                 into any form of social media, firm policies should (1) be firmly established, (2) be pre-
                                 cise, (3) clearly define the employees’ responsibilities, (4) and explain how they are to be
                                 monitored on each electronic platform utilized by the firm. Until the law catches up with
                                 technology, a useful way to reduce and manage unforeseeable social media risk is to create
                                 a work environment that fosters a strong culture of compliance.




                             Q
                        QUICK QUIZ 2.E
                                                 1.   Which of the following is NOT a factor when a communication to be distrib-
                                                      uted to the public is either being reviewed or approved by the broker-dealer?
                                                      A. Whether statements of benefits are balanced with statements of poten-
                                                         tial risks
                                                      B. The nature of the audience to which the communication is intended to
                                                         be distributed
                                                      C. Whether the piece will be distributed in written form or on the firm’s
                                                         website
                                                      D. Whether the communication is targeting existing customers or prospec-
                                                         tive ones




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 79                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:02:40 PM
     80         Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                                    2.   The regulatory bodies consider which of the following social media sites to
                                                         be predominately used for business rather than personal communications?
                                                         A.   Facebook
                                                         B.   Instagram
                                                         C.   LinkedIn
                                                         D.   Twitter



             2. 5           WHAT IS A SECURITY UNDER THE UNIFORM
                            SECURITIES ACT?
                                      Perhaps the most important term in the USA is the term security. Why is it so impor-
                                 tant? The reason is simple: the USA applies only to those financial instruments that are
                                 securities. The purchase, sale, or issuance of anything that is not a security is not covered
                                 by the act. The definition of a security, however, is complex. Over the years, courts have
                                 determined case by case what constitutes a security. The U.S. Supreme Court, in the
                                 Howey decision, defined the primary characteristics of what constitutes a security. For an
                                 instrument to be a security, the court held, it must constitute (1) an investment of money,
                                 (2) in a common enterprise, (3) with the expectation of profits, (4) to be derived primar-
                                 ily from the efforts of a person other than the investor. A common enterprise means an
                                 enterprise in which the fortunes of the investor are interwoven with those of either the
                                 person offering the investment, a third party, or other investors.



                            ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         If you think about it, the Howey decision sounds very much like it is describ-
                                                    ing a mutual fund or other pooled investment vehicle.



             2. 5. 1             LIST OF SECURITIES UNDER THE UNIFORM
                                 SECURITIES ACT
                                     The USA does not define the term but provides a comprehensive list of financial
                                 instruments that are securities under the act and therefore covered by its provisions. Under
                                 the USA, securities include:
                                 ■■ notes;
                                 ■■ stocks;
                                 ■■ treasury stocks;
                                 ■■ bonds;
                                 ■■ debentures;
                                 ■■ evidence of indebtedness;
                                 ■■ certificates of interest or participation in a profit-sharing agreement;
                                 ■■ collateral trust certificates;
                                 ■■ preorganization certificates or subscriptions;
                                 ■■ transferable shares;
                                 ■■ investment contracts;




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 80                                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:02:40 PM
                                                                        Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)        81




                                 ■■ voting trust certificates;
                                 ■■ certificates of deposit for a security;
                                 ■■ certificate of interest or participation in an oil, gas, or mining title or lease;
                                 ■■ puts, calls, straddles, options, or privileges on a security;
                                 ■■ any interest or instrument commonly known as a security; or
                                 ■■ certificates of interest or participation in, receipts of, guarantees of, or warrants or
                                    rights to subscribe to or purchase, any of the above.

                                    The following six items are not securities under the act:
                                 ■■ An insurance or endowment policy or annuity contract under which an insurance
                                    company promises to pay a fixed sum of money either in a lump sum or periodically
                                    (this is basically any product from a life insurance company that does not use the word
                                    “variable”)
                                 ■■ Interest in a retirement plan, such as an IRA or Keogh plan
                                 ■■ Collectibles
                                 ■■ Commodities such as precious metals and grains, including futures contracts
                                 ■■ Condominiums used as a personal residence
                                 ■■ Currency



                               !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT                The exam will want you to know what is and what is not a security. We
                                                 suggest that you concentrate on learning the six that are NOT securities because
                                                 they are much easier to remember, and you will still be able to answer the ques-
                                                 tions correctly.


                        2. 5. 1. 1   Nonsecurity Investments
                                     Although collectibles, fixed annuities, precious metals, grains, real estate, and cur-
                                 rencies can be attractive investments, they are not securities. Because these items are not
                                 securities, their sale is not regulated by state securities law. Furthermore, if a registered
                                 agent commits fraud in the sale of any of these items, he has not committed a violation of
                                 any state securities law. He has violated the antifraud provisions of another act prohibit-
                                 ing fraudulent commercial transactions.




                             *
                            EXAMPLE                    An individual farmer’s direct ownership of a cow is not a security—it is just
                                                 ownership of a cow. However, if the farmer makes an investment of money in a
                                                 tradable interest in a herd of cattle, on which he expects to earn a profit solely
                                                 as the result of the breeder’s efforts, he has purchased a security. In the same
                                                 manner, if a condominium is purchased in a resort area with the goal of renting
                                                 it out most of the year, and it is used only for personal vacation time, the condo
                                                 is considered a security because there is a profit motive, typically reliant on the ef-
                                                 forts of a third party—the rental agent. On the other hand, if you have chosen to
                                                 live in a condominium as a personal residence, that’s a home, not a security.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 81                                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:02:40 PM
     82         Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                        Annuities with fixed payouts are not securities, but variable annuities are
                                                    because they are dependent on the investment performance of securities within
                                                    the annuity.



             2. 5. 2             NONEXEMPT SECURITY
                                     A nonexempt security is a security subject to the registration provisions mandated
                                 by the USA. Exempt means not subject to registration. Therefore, unless the nonexempt
                                 security is registered, it may not be sold in a state unless it is sold in an exempt transaction
                                 (more about that in the following). As you will see, the sale of an unregistered nonexempt
                                 security is a prohibited practice under the USA and may subject an agent to civil and pos-
                                 sibly criminal penalties.



                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         The methods of registration discussed in this session refer to nonexempt
                                                    securities. Think of what the legal terms actually mean in everyday usage. For
                                                    example, a registered nonexempt security is most likely a common stock properly
                                                    registered for sale in a state.



             2. 5. 3             ISSUER
                                     An issuer is any person who issues (distributes) or proposes to issue a security. The most
                                 common issuers of securities are companies or governments (federal, state, and municipal
                                 governments and their agencies and subdivisions). However, under the USA, with respect
                                 to certificates of interest; participation in oil, gas, or mining titles or leases; or in payments
                                 out of production under such titles or leases, there is not considered to be any issuer.
                                     If an issuer is nonexempt, it must generally register its securities in the states where
                                 they will be sold under one of the registration methods described in the session.




                            *
                            EXAMPLE                     ABC Shoe Co. (a retail chain store) issues shares to the public. Mr. Bixby (an
                                                    investor) buys the shares through his broker, Mr. Thompson, at First Securities
                                                    Corporation. ABC Shoe is the issuer; Mr. Bixby is the investor; First Securities is
                                                    the broker-dealer; and Mr. Thompson is the registered representative, known
                                                    under the USA as an agent.


                   2. 5. 3. 1         Issuer Transaction
                                    An issuer transaction is one in which the proceeds of the sale go to the issuer. All
                                 newly issued securities are issuer transactions. In other words, when a company raises
                                 money by selling (issuing) securities to investors, the proceeds from the sale go to the
                                 company itself.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 82                                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:02:41 PM
                                                                            Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)        83




                        2. 5. 3. 2      Nonissuer Transaction
                                        A nonissuer transaction is one in which the proceeds of the sales do not go, directly
                                    or indirectly, to the entity that originally offered the securities to the public. The most
                                    common instance of this is everyday trading on exchanges such as the New York Stock
                                    Exchange or Nasdaq. In a nonissuer transaction, the proceeds of the sale go to the investor
                                    who sold the shares. Because the shares are not new, we refer to this as secondary trading.



                               ✓
                            TA K E N O T E
                                                          If Mr. Bixby, an investor, sells 100 shares of stock he owns in ABC Shoe Co.
                                                     (the securities issuer) on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), Mr. Bixby receives
                                                     the proceeds from the sale, not ABC Shoes. This is a nonissuer transaction.

                                       Nonissuer transactions are also referred to as secondary transactions or transactions
                                    between investors.


                   2. 5. 4          INITIAL OR PRIMARY OFFERING
                                         An issuer transaction involving new securities is called a primary offering. If it is the
                                    first time an issuer distributes securities to the public, it is called an initial public offering
                                    (IPO). Any subsequent issuance of new shares to the public is called an SPO (subse-
                                    quent public offering) or APO (additional public offering). All primary offerings, IPOs
                                    and SPOs, are issuer transactions because the issuer (the company) receives the proceeds
                                    from the investor investing in the company.




                              *
                             EXAMPLE                      The first time that ABC Shoe Co. issued shares to the public, ABC Shoe
                                                     engaged in an IPO or a primary offering because it received the proceeds from
                                                     distributing its shares to the public. After ABC Shoe went public, transactions be-
                                                     tween investors executed on exchanges through brokerage agents were second-
                                                     ary transactions in nonissuer securities.




                                 !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT                    When investors purchase shares of an open-end investment company (mu-
                                                     tual fund), that is always an issuer transaction because the fund is continuously
                                                     offering new shares. However, when the investment company sells shares out of
                                                     its portfolio, that is a nonissuer transaction in the secondary markets.




                               Q
                        QUICK QUIZ 2.F               1.   Which list of instruments below is NOT composed of securities?
                                                          A.   Stock, treasury stock, rights, warrants, and transferable shares
                                                          B.   Voting trust certificates and interests in oil and gas drilling programs
                                                          C.   Commodity futures contracts and fixed payment life insurance contracts
                                                          D.   Options on securities and interests in multilevel distributorship
                                                               arrangements




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 83                                                                                                                     7/15/2016 2:02:41 PM
     84         Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                                    2.   The U.S. Supreme Court defined an investment contract as having four
                                                         components. Which of the following is NOT part of the four-part test for an
                                                         investment contract?
                                                         A.   An investment of money
                                                         B.   An expectation of profit
                                                         C.   Management activity by owner
                                                         D.   Solely from the efforts of others

                                                    3.   Nonexempt securities
                                                         A.   need not be registered in the state in which they are sold
                                                         B.   must always be registered in the state in which they are sold
                                                         C.   need not be registered if sold in an exempt transaction
                                                         D.   need not be registered if sold in a nonexempt transaction

                                                    4.   A nonissuer transaction is a transaction
                                                         A. between two corporations where one is issuing the stock and the other
                                                            is purchasing
                                                         B. in which the issuer of the security will not receive the proceeds from the
                                                            transaction
                                                         C. where a mutual fund purchases a Treasury bond directly from the
                                                            government
                                                         D. where registration is always required



             2. 6           REGISTRATION OF SECURITIES UNDER THE UNIFORM
                            SECURITIES ACT
                                      Under the USA, it is unlawful for any person to offer or sell an unregistered security in
                                 a state unless (1) it is registered under the Act, (2) the security or transaction is exempted
                                 from registration under the Act, or (3) it is a federal covered security. If the security or
                                 transaction is not exempt or is not a federal covered security as defined by the National
                                 Securities Markets Improvement Act, it must be registered in the state or it cannot be
                                 lawfully sold in the state.


             2. 6. 1             NATIONAL SECURITIES MARKETS IMPROVEMENT
                                 ACT OF 1996 (NSMIA)
                                      We introduced you to the NSMIA in the previous session. This law effectively divided
                                 the responsibility for regulating investment advisers between the states and the SEC by
                                 creating the category of registration known as a federal covered adviser. We’ll have more
                                 to say about that in the next session.
                                      Of importance to this session, the NSMIA also created the term federal covered secu-
                                 rity, a security that was exempt from registration on the state level. State securities regis-
                                 tration requirements were preempted with respect to federal covered securities. However,
                                 states may require Notice Filings, consisting of filing fees and copies of documents filed
                                 with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), primarily in the case of registered
                                 investment companies (e.g., mutual funds).




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 84                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:02:41 PM
                                                                          Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)        85




                   2. 6. 2          CATEGORIES OF FEDERAL COVERED SECURITIES
                                        The major categories of covered securities (securities covered by federal securities
                                    laws), which therefore cannot be regulated by state securities Administrators (except for
                                    violation of anti-fraud provisions), include:
                                    ■■ securities issued by an open-end or closed-end investment company, unit investment
                                        trust, or face amount certificate company, that is registered under the Investment
                                        Company Act of 1940;
                                    ■■ securities listed on the New York Stock Exchange, the Chicago Stock Exchange, the
                                        Nasdaq Stock Market, and (not tested) several other U.S. exchanges [in addition, any
                                        security equal in seniority (rights or warrants) or senior to these securities (bonds and
                                        preferred stock) is also considered federal covered]; and
                                    ■■ securities offered pursuant to the provisions of Rule 506(b) or 506(c) of Regulation
                                        D under the Securities Act of 1933 (qualifying under the private placement transac-
                                        tion exemption).
                                    ■■ most securities exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933 (you do not
                                        have to know the exceptions other than the one we’re going to describe below). If the
                                        federal government says the security does not have to register, no state can overstep
                                        that. We know from the previous session that securities offered by a U.S. federal gov-
                                        ernment issuer or a municipal issuer are exempt on the federal level (state as well, but
                                        that is not relevant to a discussion of a covered security). However, under the NSMIA,
                                        if the municipal issuer is located in the state in which the securities are being offered,
                                        that security is not considered a federal covered security.

                                        Bonds issued by municipalities—for example, the City of New York bonds due 2030—
                                    are federal covered securities exempt from registration requirements in the states, but
                                    there is an exception to the rule.
                                        Congress felt it unwise to impose upon the states. Even though municipal securities
                                    are exempt under the Uniform Securities Act, remember, the USA is only a template and
                                    a specific state theoretically could pass legislation removing the exemption from munici-
                                    pal bonds. That could only apply to bonds issued by municipalities of that state. If those
                                    securities were federal covered, the state could not do so. However, because municipal
                                    securities of other states are federal covered securities, the state cannot overrule federal
                                    law and take away their exemption.




                              *
                             EXAMPLE                    A bond issued by the city of Columbus, OH, is a federal covered security
                                                    everywhere but in the state of Ohio. The effect of this is that no state regulator
                                                    can enforce any of their rules against the bond. But, in the state of Ohio, even
                                                    though the security is exempt under Ohio’s securities laws, the Administrator
                                                    could request that the issuer (the city) furnish certain details about the issue.




                               ✓
                            TA K E N O T E
                                                        It is important to note that registering a security with the SEC does not auto-
                                                    matically make it federal covered. Yes, that is true of investment companies and
                                                    those securities listed on the exchanges and Nasdaq, but there are thousands of
                                                    stocks registered with the SEC that trade on the OTC Bulletin Board or the OTC




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 85                                                                                                                   7/15/2016 2:02:41 PM
     86         Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                                    Link, formerly known as the Pink Sheets, and they are not federal covered. Fur-
                                                    thermore, a security does not have to be registered with the SEC to be included
                                                    in the definition of federal covered security. For example, U.S. government and
                                                    municipal securities are federal covered securities and are exempt from registra-
                                                    tion with the SEC.




                            ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         Although investment company securities are federal covered securities, the
                                                    Uniform Securities Act allows states to impose filing fees on them under a process
                                                    called notice filing, as described below.




             2. 7           METHODS OF STATE REGISTRATION OF SECURITIES
                                     The USA provides two methods for securities issuers to register their securities in a
                                 state, plus a special method for certain federal covered securities. They are:
                                 ■■ notice filing;
                                 ■■ coordination; and
                                 ■■ qualification.


             2. 7. 1             NOTICE FILING
                                      As previously mentioned, the National Securities Markets Improvement Act of 1996
                                 (NSMIA) designated certain securities as federal covered and, therefore, removed from
                                 the jurisdiction of the state regulatory authorities. Although the states are preempted from
                                 requiring registration for federal covered securities, status as a federal covered security is
                                 not a preemption of the licensing or anti-fraud laws. Any person that sells a federal cov-
                                 ered security must be licensed as a broker-dealer or agent (unless otherwise exempted) and
                                 must also comply with the anti-fraud provisions of state laws.
                                      The Uniform Securities Act gives the Administrator the authority to require notice
                                 filings with respect to federal covered securities, generally investment companies regis-
                                 tered with the SEC under the Investment Company Act of 1940. So, what is this notice
                                 filing? Primarily, it is an opportunity for the states to collect revenue in the form of filing
                                 fees because, unlike with the two actual methods of registration we are going to discuss,
                                 the Administrator has limited powers to review any documentation filed with his depart-
                                 ment. The fees for notice filing are generally lower than for the two forms of registration.
                                      Under the notice filing procedure, state Administrators may require the issuer of cer-
                                 tain federal covered securities to file the following documents as a condition for sale of
                                 their securities in the state:
                                 ■■ Documents filed along with their registration statements filed with the SEC
                                 ■■ Documents filed as amendments to the initial federal registration statement
                                 ■■ A report as to the value of such securities offered in the state
                                 ■■ Consent to service of process




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 86                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:02:41 PM
                                                                     Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)        87




                             !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                   Keep in mind the distinction between federal covered securities and SEC-
                                              regis­tered securities. Under the NSMIA, federal covered securities are a narrowly
                                              defined group of securities that either trade on certain exchanges or are exempt
                                              from SEC registration. There are thousands of SEC-registered securities that
                                              do not meet the required standard, including those on the OTC Bulletin Board
                                              and the OTC Link of the OTC Markets Group Inc., formerly known as the Pink
                                              Sheets.




                             !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                   Before the initial offer of any federal covered security in this state, the Ad-
                                              ministrator, by rule or order, may require the filing of all documents that are part
                                              of a federal registration statement filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
                                              Commission under the Securities Act of 1933, together with a consent to service
                                              of process signed by the issuer. However, unless there is an appearance of fraud,
                                              the Administrator does not have the power (because of lack of jurisdiction) to
                                              prevent the sale of a federal covered security in his state.




                             !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                  Even though an issuer of a federal covered security (think about a Fortune
                                              500 company listed on the NYSE) may not have to notice file, that does not
                                              mean that the company can make misrepresentations during an offer made in
                                              any state. To do so would violate the antifraud provisions of the USA.



                   2. 7. 2    REGISTRATION BY COORDINATION
                                   The most common form of registration for those securities that are not federal covered
                              (typically securities traded on the OTC Bulletin Board or the OTC Link) is coordination.
                              A security may be registered by coordination if a registration statement has been filed
                              under the Securities Act of 1933 in connection with the same offering.
                                   In coordinating a federal registration with state registration, issuers must supply the
                              following records in addition to the consent to service of process:
                              ■■ Copies of the latest form of prospectus filed under the Securities Act of 1933, if the
                                   Administrator requires it
                              ■■ Copy of articles of incorporation and bylaws, a copy of the underwriting agreement, or
                                   a specimen copy of the security
                              ■■ If the Administrator requests, copies of any other information filed by the issuer under
                                   the Securities Act of 1933
                              ■■ Each amendment to the federal prospectus promptly after it is filed with the SEC




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 87                                                                                                              7/15/2016 2:02:41 PM
     88         Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                   2. 7. 2. 1         Effective Date
                                     Registration by coordination becomes effective at the same time the federal registra-
                                 tion becomes effective, provided:
                                 ■■ no stop orders have been issued by the Administrator and no proceedings are pending
                                     against the issuer;
                                 ■■ the registration has been on file for at least the minimum number of days specified by
                                     the Administrator, a number that currently ranges from 10 to 20 days, depending on
                                     the state; and
                                 ■■ a statement of the maximum and minimum offering prices and underwriting discounts
                                     have been on file for two business days.

                                     Registration by coordination is by far the most frequently used method and, from a
                                 practical standpoint, is the only sensible way to register a multi-state offering.


             2. 7. 3             REGISTRATION BY QUALIFICATION
                                     Any security can be registered by qualification. Registration by qualification requires
                                 a registrant to supply any information required by the state securities Administrator.
                                 Securities not eligible for registration by another method must be registered by qualifica-
                                 tion. In addition, securities that will be sold only in one state (intrastate) will be registered
                                 by qualification.
                                     To register by qualification, an issuer must supply a consent to service of process and
                                 the following information:
                                 ■■ Name, address, form of organization, description of property, and nature of business
                                 ■■ Information on directors and officers and every owner of 10% or more of the issuers
                                     securities, and the remuneration paid to owners in the last 12 months
                                 ■■ Description of issuers’ capitalization and long-term debt
                                 ■■ Estimated proceeds and the use to which the proceeds will be put
                                 ■■ Type and amount of securities offered, offering price, and selling and underwriting
                                     costs
                                 ■■ Stock options to be created in connection with the offering
                                 ■■ Copy of any prospectus, pamphlet, circular, or sales literature to be used in the offering
                                 ■■ Specimen copy of the security along with opinion of counsel as to the legality of the
                                     security being offered
                                 ■■ Audited balance sheet current within four months of the offering with an income
                                     statement for three years before the balance sheet date

                                     The Administrator may require additional information by rule or order. The
                                 Administrator may require that a prospectus be sent to purchasers before the sale and
                                 that newly established companies register their securities for the first time in a state by
                                 qualification.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 88                                                                                                            7/15/2016 2:02:41 PM
                                                                            Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)        89




                               ✓
                            TA K E N O T E
                                                          As we’ve noted previously, in order to register, even by notice filing, there
                                                     must be a consent to service of process filed with the Administrator. However, a
                                                     person (remember the broad definition) who has filed such a consent in connec-
                                                     tion with a previous registration or notice filing need not file another. A practical
                                                     effect of this is if you leave the firm you are registering with (you’ve probably
                                                     already filed the consent to service of process to get this far) and register with
                                                     another firm, you do not have to file a new consent—the old one remains on file.
                                                     Or, if a company decides to raise additional capital by issuing more stock, a new
                                                     consent is not required.


                        2. 7. 3. 1      Effective Date
                                         Unlike coordination, where the effective date is triggered by SEC acceptance of
                                    the registration, a registration by qualification becomes effective whenever the state
                                    Administrator so orders.
                                         Regardless of the method used, every registration statement is effective for one year
                                    from its effective date. Unlike agent and broker-dealer registrations, the date December 31
                                    is of no consequence. One interesting facet of the law is that the registration may continue
                                    in effect past the first anniversary if there are still some unsold shares remaining, as long as
                                    they are still being offered at the original public offering price by either the issuer or the
                                    underwriter.
                                         Although the above rule applies to all methods of registration, as a practical matter,
                                    it would rarely apply other than in a security registered by qualification. Those registered
                                    by coordination are also obviously registered with the SEC and therefore are sold by the
                                    major investment banking houses. Unless the issue is a real dog, it will sell out rather
                                    quickly. Even those that are not popular are usually completely subscribed to in a week or
                                    two.
                                         On the other hand, what if the issue, regardless of the method of registration, is in
                                    very high demand? Is it possible to increase the number of shares in the offering without
                                    having to file a new registration statement? Yes. A registration statement may be amended
                                    after its effective date so as to increase the securities specified to be offered and sold if two
                                    conditions are met.
                                    ■■ The public offering price is not changed from the amount stated in the original regis-
                                         tration statement.
                                    ■■ The underwriters’ discounts and commissions are not changed from the respective
                                         amounts stated in the original registration statement.

                                         The amendment becomes effective when the Administrator so orders. Every person
                                    filing such an amendment shall pay a late registration fee and a filing fee, calculated in
                                    the manner as the original quantity, levied against the additional securities proposed to
                                    be offered.



                                 !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT                   A registration statement may be amended after its effective date to change
                                                     the number of shares to be offered and sold if the public offering price and un-
                                                     derwriter’s discounts and commissions are unchanged.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 89                                                                                                                     7/15/2016 2:02:41 PM
     90         Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                            Q
                  QUICK QUIZ 2.G                    True or False?

                                                    ____      1.	ABC Shoe Company, a new retail shoe store chain, has applied for
                                                                  the registration of its securities with the SEC as required by the
                                                                  Securities Act of 1933 and wants to register its securities in the state
                                                                  of Illinois and several neighboring states. ABC would most likely
                                                                  register by coordination.

                                                    ____      2.	Any company may register by qualification whether or not it files a
                                                                  statement with the SEC.

                                                    3.   XYZ Corporation has been in business for over 20 years. They need addi-
                                                         tional capital for expansion, and determine that a public offering in their
                                                         home state and neighboring states is appropriate. Which method of secu-
                                                         rities registration would most likely be used to register this initial public
                                                         offering?
                                                         A.   Coordination
                                                         B.   Notice filing
                                                         C.   Qualification
                                                         D.   Registration

                                                    4.   KAPCO Dividend Yield Fund, a closed-end investment company registered
                                                         under the Investment Company Act of 1940, wishes to commence offering
                                                         its shares in States A, B, C, and D. It could be required to
                                                         A.   coordinate its federal registration with each of the four states
                                                         B.   notice file
                                                         C.   register by qualification in each of the states
                                                         D.   do none of these because investment companies registered under the
                                                              Investment Company Act of 1940 are federal covered securities and are
                                                              exempt from registration




             2. 8           EXEMPTIONS FROM REGISTRATION
                                     In certain situations, the USA exempts both securities and transactions from registra-
                                 tion and filing requirements of sales literature. A security, a transaction, or both, can be
                                 exempt.
                                     An exempt security retains its exemption when initially issued and in subsequent
                                 trading. However, justification as an exempt transaction must be established before each
                                 transaction.
                                     The USA provides for a number of categories of exempt securities and even more
                                 categories of exempt transactions. Those securities that are nonexempt must register
                                 unless sold in exempt transactions. Federal covered securities do not register with the
                                 Administrator but may, especially in the case of investment companies, have to Notice
                                 File with the Administrator. As mentioned above, an exempt security retains its exemp-
                                 tion at its initial issue and in subsequent trading.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 90                                                                                                                    7/15/2016 2:02:41 PM
                                                                         Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)        91




                                        An exemption for a transaction, on the other hand, must be established with each
                                    transaction. Provided it is in the public interest, the state Administrator can deny, sus-
                                    pend, or revoke any securities transaction exemption other than that of a federal covered
                                    security. This action may be taken with or without prior notice (summarily).



                               ✓
                            TA K E N O T E
                                                        A security is exempt because of the nature of the issuer, not the purchaser.

                                         An exempt transaction is exempt from the regulatory control of the state Administrator
                                    because of the manner in which a sale is made or because of the person to whom the sale is
                                    made. A transaction is an action and must be judged by the merits of each instance.
                                         One of the most important statements found in the USA is the following. It is unlaw-
                                    ful for any person to offer or sell any security in this state unless:
                                    ■■ it is registered under the act;
                                    ■■ the security or transaction is exempted under the act; or
                                    ■■ it is a federal covered security.

                                        For example, an agent can sell a security that is not exempt from registration in the
                                    state if the purchaser of the security is a bank or other institutional buyer. Why is that so?
                                    Because the sale of securities to certain financial institutions is an exempt transaction (as
                                    will be enumerated shortly), the sale can be made without registration. This means that
                                    the securities sold in exempt transactions do not have to be registered in the state. If such
                                    securities were not sold in exempt transactions, such as to an individual investor, they
                                    would have to be registered in the state.


                   2. 8. 1          EXEMPT SECURITIES
                                        Securities exempt from state registration are also exempt from state filing of sales lit-
                                    erature. Exempt securities include the following.
                                    ■■ U.S. and Canadian government and municipal securities. These include securities
                                        issued, insured, or guaranteed by the United States or Canada, by a state or province,
                                        or by their political subdivisions.*
                                    ■■ Foreign government securities. These include securities issued, insured, or guaran-
                                        teed by a foreign government with which the United States maintains diplomatic rela-
                                        tions. However, unlike U.S. or Canadian issues, political subdivisions are not included
                                        (unless guaranteed by the sovereign government).*
                                    ■■ Depository institutions. These include securities that are issued, guaranteed by, or
                                        are a direct obligation of a depository institution. The USA divides them into the fol-
                                        lowing categories: (1) any security issued by and representing an interest in or a debt
                                        of, or guaranteed by, any bank organized under the laws of the United States, or any
                                        bank, savings institution, or trust company organized and supervised under the laws
                                        of any state; (2) any security issued by and representing an interest in or a debt of, or
                                        guaranteed by, any federal savings and loan association, or any building and loan or
                                        similar association organized under the laws of any state and authorized to do business
                                        in this state; and (3) any security issued or guaranteed by any federal credit union
                                        or any credit union, industrial loan association, or similar association organized and




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 91                                                                                                                  7/15/2016 2:02:41 PM
     92         Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                    supervised under the laws of this state. Please note that for categories (2) and (3), if
                                    the institution is not federally chartered, then it must be authorized to do business in
                                    the state (under the supervision of a regulator in that state).*
                                 ■■ Insurance company securities. These include securities issued, insured, or guaranteed
                                    by an insurance company authorized to do business in the state. Insurance company
                                    securities refer to the stocks or bonds issued by insurance companies, not the variable
                                    life policies and variable annuities sold by the companies.
                                 ■■ Public utility securities. These include any security issued or guaranteed by a public
                                    utility or public utility holding company, or an equipment trust certificate issued by
                                    a railroad or other common carrier regulated in respect to rates by federal or state
                                    authority; or regulated in respect to issuance or guarantee of the security by a govern-
                                    mental authority of the United States, any state, Canada, or any Canadian province.
                                 ■■ Federal covered securities. These include any security of that issuer equal to or senior
                                    to it. This would include rights, warrants, preferred stock, and any debt security.
                                 ■■ Securities issued by nonprofit organizations. These include securities issued by reli-
                                    gious, educational, fraternal, charitable, social, athletic, reformatory, or trade associa-
                                    tions. Nonprofit is the key word.
                                 ■■ Securities issued by cooperatives. These include securities issued by a nonprofit mem-
                                    bership cooperative to members of that cooperative.
                                 ■■ Securities of employee benefit plans. This includes any investment contract issued by
                                    an employee stock purchase, saving, pension, or profit-sharing plan.*
                                 ■■ Certain money market instruments. Commercial paper and banker’s acceptances are
                                    the two most common examples.*



                            ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         The five items listed with an asterisk (*) are the only cases where an individu­
                                                    al representing the issuer in the sale of its securities is excluded from the defini­
                                                    tion of an agent. (Described previously at 2.3.2.2.1.)

                                      The distinction between exemptions and exceptions (or exclusions) from definitions
                                 is important in view of the fact that an exempt security is not exempt from the anti-fraud
                                 provisions of the Uniform Securities Act.
                                      For example, as we covered earlier in this session, the typical life insurance policy
                                 or fixed annuity is not a security, and is not covered under the anti-fraud statutes of the
                                 Uniform Securities Act. On the other hand, we have just seen that securities issued by
                                 insurance companies are exempted from registration under the conditions of the Act.
                                 Even though these securities are exempt from registration and the filing of advertising and
                                 sales literature with the Administrator, they are still subject to the antifraud provisions.
                                 Therefore, one cannot be charged with fraudu­lent behavior under the USA in the sale of
                                 a fixed annuity while one could be with the sale of stock in an insurance company (or any
                                 other exempt security).



                            ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         A promissory note (commercial paper), draft, bill of exchange, or banker’s
                                                    acceptance that matures within nine months, is issued in denominations of at
                                                    least $50,000, and receives one of the three highest ratings by a nationally rec-




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 92                                                                                                                   7/15/2016 2:02:41 PM
                                                                    Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)        93




                                             ognized rating agency is exempt from registration requirements. Please note that
                                             this is the only case where a security’s rating is part of the registration or exemp-
                                             tion under the Uniform Securities Act.




                               ✓
                            TA K E N O T E
                                                 The following, although considered exempt from registration under the Uni-
                                             form Securities Act, are not exempt from federal registration under the Securities
                                             Act of 1933:
                                                 ■■ Foreign government securities

                                                 ■■ Insurance company securities

                                                 ■■ Federal covered securities (those listed on exchanges or Nasdaq and
                                                    registered investment companies)




                                 !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT            Securities issued by regulated banks are exempt from registration under both
                                             state and federal law. However, as stated in the previous session, securities issued
                                             by bank holding companies are not exempt, at least not under the bank exemp-
                                             tion. Most of the major bank holding companies are listed on the exchanges or
                                             Nasdaq and, as federal covered securities, are exempt from registration with the
                                             states (but not the SEC). Please try to keep these straight because the exam will
                                             attempt to confuse you.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 93                                                                                                             7/15/2016 2:02:41 PM
     94         Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                            Q
                  QUICK QUIZ 2.H                    1.   Which of the following securities is(are) exempt from the registration and
                                                         advertising filing requirements under the USA?
                                                           I. Shares of investment companies registered under the Investment Com-
                                                              pany Act of 1940
                                                          II. Shares sold on the Nasdaq Stock Market
                                                         III. AAA rated promissory notes of $100,000 that mature in 30 days
                                                         IV. Shares sold on the New York Stock Exchange
                                                         A.     I only
                                                         B.     II, III, and IV
                                                         C.     II and IV
                                                         D.     I, II, III, and IV

                                                    2.   Which of the following securities is NOT exempt from the registration and
                                                         advertising requirements of the USA?
                                                         A. Shares of Commonwealth Edison, a regulated public utility holding
                                                            company
                                                         B. Securities issued by the Carnegie Endowment for Peace
                                                         C. Securities issued by a bank that is a member of the Federal Reserve
                                                            System
                                                         D. Variable annuity contracts issued by Metrodential Insurance Company

                                                    3.   Which of the following securities is(are) exempt from the registration provi-
                                                         sions of the USA?
                                                           I. Issue of a savings and loan association authorized to conduct business in
                                                              the state
                                                          II. General obligation municipal bond
                                                         III. Bond issued by a company that has common stock listed on the Chicago
                                                              Stock Exchange
                                                          A. I only
                                                          B. II only
                                                          C. II and III
                                                          D. I, II, and III

                                                    4.   Securities exempt under the Uniform Securities Act are exempt from
                                                           I.   registration requirements
                                                          II.   antifraud provisions of state securities laws
                                                         III.   filing sales and advertising literature with the Administrator
                                                          A.    I and II
                                                          B.    I and III
                                                          C.    II and III
                                                          D.    I, II, and III




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 94                                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:02:41 PM
                                                                  Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)        95




                   2. 8. 2   EXEMPT TRANSACTIONS
                                  Before a security can be sold in a state, it must be registered unless exempt from reg-
                             istration, or traded in an exempt transaction. This section covers exemptions for transac-
                             tions that take place in a state.
                                  There are many different types of exempt transactions. We begin by focusing on those
                             most likely to be on your exam and finish with several others.
                             ■■ Isolated nonissuer transactions. Isolated nonissuer transactions include secondary
                                  (nonissuer) transactions, whether effected through a broker-dealer or not, that occur
                                  infrequently (very few transactions per agent per year; the exact number varies by
                                  state). However, these usually do not involve securities professionals. In the same
                                  manner that individuals placing a “for sale by owner” sign on their front lawns do
                                  not need a real estate license, one individual selling stock to another in a one-on-one
                                  transaction is engaging in a transaction exempt from the oversight of the Administra-
                                  tor, because the issuer is not receiving any of the proceeds, and the parties involved are
                                  not trading as part of a regular practice.
                             ■■ Unsolicited brokerage transactions. These include transactions initiated by the cli-
                                  ent, not the agent. This is probably the most common of the exempt transactions.
                                  If a client calls a registered agent and requests that the agent buy or sell a security,
                                  the transaction is an unsolicited brokerage transaction exempt from state registration.
                                  But, the Administrator may by rule require that the customer acknowledge upon a
                                  specified form that the sale was unsolicited, and that a signed copy of the form be kept
                                  by the broker-dealer for a specified period.
                             ■■ Underwriter transactions. These include transactions between issuer (or any other
                                  person on whose behalf the offering is made), and broker-dealers performing in the
                                  capacity of an underwriter (such as a firm commitment underwriting) as well as those
                                  between underwriters themselves (as when functioning as members of a selling syndi-
                                  cate).
                             ■■ Bankruptcy, guardian, or conservator transactions. Transactions by an executor,
                                  administrator, sheriff, marshal, receiver, guardian, or trustee in bankruptcy are exempt
                                  transactions. Please note that a custodian under UGMA or UTMA is not included in
                                  this list and that the only trustee is one in bankruptcy.
                             ■■ Institutional investor transactions. These are primarily transactions with financial
                                  institutions such as banks, insurance companies, and investment companies, and
                                  there is no minimum order size used to define these trades.
                             ■■ Limited offering transactions. These include any offering, called a private placement,
                                  directed at not more than 10 persons (called offerees) other than institutional inves-
                                  tors during the previous 12 consecutive months, provided that
                                 —— the seller reasonably believes that all of the noninstitutional buyers are purchasing
                                    for investment purposes only,
                                 —— no commissions or other remuneration is paid for soliciting noninstitutional inves-
                                    tors, and
                                 —— no general solicitation or advertising is used.

                                  Unlike federal law, where the private placement rule restricts the number of purchas-
                             ers, the USA restricts the number of offers that may be made.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 95                                                                                                           7/15/2016 2:02:41 PM
     96         Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                     There is another way in which the USA differs from the federal law on private place-
                                 ments. The federal law will not be tested, but we are referring to it because we know many
                                 of our Series 66 students have just completed studying for a FINRA exam where this
                                 topic is covered, and we don’t want you to choose the wrong answer on this test. Under
                                 federal law, any non-institutional purchaser must sign an investment let­ter indicating that
                                 purchase was made for investment purposes only and not for immediate resale. However,
                                 the USA does not require a written representation by each buyer that he is purchasing for
                                 investment but agrees that it would be prudent on the part of the seller to obtain some­
                                 thing in writing. All that is required is that the seller reasonably believes that the buyer
                                 is purchasing for investment only. Moreover, one who, in good faith, buys for investment
                                 can later change his mind and resell, although the shorter the interval, the harder it will
                                 be to show that there was a bona fide change of mind.
                                     The number 10 is the figure that will be tested. But, an Administrator may want to
                                 reduce it, for example, for uranium stocks or oil royalties, or increase it for a closely held
                                 corporation that wants to solicit 20 or 30 friends and relatives of the owners for additional
                                 capital. As we continue to learn, the Administrator has a great deal of power.
                                 ■■ Preorganization certificates. An offer or sale of a preorganization certificate or sub-
                                     scription is exempt if
                                      —— no commission or other remuneration is paid or given directly or indirectly for
                                         soliciting any subscriber,
                                      —— the number of subscribers does not exceed 10, and
                                      —— no payment is made by any subscriber.

                                      You have probably never heard of a preorganization certificate or subscription, so a
                                 little explanation is in order. A new corporation cannot receive a charter unless its doc-
                                 uments of incorporation provide evidence that minimum funding is assured. Since the
                                 purpose of these preorganization certificates is to enable a new enterprise to obtain the
                                 minimum amount of capital required by the corporation law of the state, the USA places
                                 a limitation on the number of subscribers rather than the number of offerees (as in the
                                 private placement exemption above). Hence, there may be a publicly advertised offering
                                 of preorganization subscriptions. But there may be no payment until effective registration
                                 unless another exemption is available. This tool itself simply postpones registration; it
                                 does not excuse registration altogether.
                                 ■■ Transactions with existing security holders. A transaction made under an offer to
                                      existing security holders of the issuer (including persons who are holders of convert-
                                      ible securities, rights, or warrants) is exempt as long as no commission or other form of
                                      remuneration is paid directly or indirectly for soliciting that security holder.
                                 ■■ Nonissuer transactions by pledgees. A nonissuer transaction executed by a bona fide
                                      pledgee (i.e., the one who received the security as collateral for a loan), as long as it
                                      was not for the purpose of evading the act, is an exempt transaction. For example, you
                                      pledged stock as collateral for a loan and defaulted on your obligation. The lender
                                      will sell your stock to try to recoup his loss and, under the USA, this is considered an
                                      exempt transaction.
                                 ■■ The following are examples of exempt transactions that are unlikely to be on your
                                      exam.
                                 ■■ Unit secured transactions. These include transactions in a bond backed by a real
                                      mortgage or deed of trust provided that the entire mortgage or deed of trust is sold as
                                      a unit.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 96                                                                                                         7/15/2016 2:02:41 PM
                                                                          Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)        97




                                    ■■ Control transactions. This includes mergers, consolidations, or reorganization trans-
                                       actions to which the issuer and the other person or its parent or subsidiary are parties.
                                    ■■ Rescission offers. These include offers made to rescind an improper transaction.



                               ✓
                            TA K E N O T E
                                                        Some students find it helpful to remember that an exempt security is a noun
                                                    while an exempt transaction is a verb (hence the word “action”).




                                 !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                         Remember the distinction between an accredited investor and institutional
                                                    investor. An accredited investor is an investor who meets the accredited inves-
                                                    tor standards of Regulation D. Rule 501 of Regulation D considers an individual
                                                    with net worth greater than $1 million on the date of purchase, singly or with a
                                                    spouse, excluding the net equity in the primary residence, to meet the definition
                                                    of accredited investor. Alternatively, one may qualify with earnings greater than
                                                    $200,000 per year ($300,000 if including spouse) in each of the previous two
                                                    years and a reasonable expectation of reaching that level in the current year. This
                                                    term only applies to federal law, not the USA, and will probably never be the cor-
                                                    rect answer to a USA question.
                                                         An institutional investor is an investor that manages large amounts of
                                                    money for other people, such as a mutual fund, an insurance company, a bank,
                                                    or a pension fund.




                                 !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                         For purposes of meeting the net worth requirements of Rule 501, assets
                                                    in an account or property held jointly with a person who is not the purchaser’s
                                                    spouse may be included in the calculation, but only to the extent of his or her
                                                    percentage ownership of the account or property.


                        2. 8. 2. 1      Administrator’s Powers Over Exemptions
                                         The USA grants the Administrator the authority, by rule or order, to exempt a security,
                                    a transaction, or an offer from the USA’s registration and filing requirements. In addition,
                                    the Administrator may waive a requirement for an exemption of a transaction or security.
                                         Try to follow this next point because it is a bit tricky. The Administrator may, by rule
                                    or order, deny or revoke the registration exemption of:
                                    ■■ any security issued by any person organized and operated not for private profit but
                                         exclusively for religious, educational, benevolent, charitable, fraternal, social, ath-
                                         letic, or reformatory purposes, or as a chamber of commerce or trade or professional
                                         association (your basic nonprofit exemption); and
                                    ■■ any investment contract issued in connection with an employees’ stock purchase, sav-
                                         ings, pension, profit sharing, or similar benefit plan.

                                        Please note that a few pages ago, we gave you a list of 10 different exempt securities,
                                    from U.S. and Canadian government issues through certain money market instruments.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 97                                                                                                                   7/15/2016 2:02:42 PM
     98         Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                 However, the Administrator can only deny exemption to the two specified above. On the
                                 other hand, with the exception of those involving federal covered securities qualifying
                                 for the designation due to being listed on an exchange or Nasdaq, the Administrator may
                                 deny any exempt transaction. That means that, for example, just because an agent solic-
                                 ited a transaction with an insurance company of a security that was not federal covered,
                                 the Administrator has the power, if he feels it is justified, to consider that transaction
                                 nonexempt.
                                      Under the USA, the burden of providing an exemption or an exception from a defini-
                                 tion falls upon the person claiming it.



                            ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                        There are only two securities exemptions that the Administrator may revoke,
                                                    while all exempt transactions, other than in certain federal covered securities,
                                                    may be revoked.



             2. 8. 3             SUMMARY OF EXEMPTIONS FROM REGISTRATION
                                      Let’s start our summary with the key statement from the USA:

                                            It is unlawful for any person to offer or sell any security in this state unless (1) it is
                                      registered under this act or (2) the security or transaction is exempted under this act; or (3)
                                      it is a federal covered security.

                                      We must point out that these exemptions apply to the security or transaction only,
                                 not to the securities professional. So if a security is exempt, such as a government security,
                                 it can be sold in this state without any registration. But, the person who sells it must be
                                 properly registered in this state (unless that person qualifies for an exemption). Are you
                                 confused? Remember, we learned earlier in this session that broker-dealers with no place
                                 of business in the state, dealing exclusively with other broker-dealers or institutional cli-
                                 ents, are not considered to be a BD in the state (as long as they are properly registered in
                                 at least one state—the location of their principal office). Let’s apply that to the following
                                 situation.
                                      ABC Securities is a broker-dealer registered in State A. They have no place of business
                                 in State B, but they do effect transactions on behalf of a number of banks and insurance
                                 companies located in State B. Therefore, they are not considered BDs in State B and are
                                 exempt from registering. Should ABC Securities sell some government securities to these
                                 clients, neither ABC nor the agents making the sale are required to be registered. This is
                                 not because the government securities are exempt (that just means that they don’t have
                                 to register with the Administrator), but because, under the USA, ABC does not meet the
                                 definition of a broker-dealer in State B.
                                      However, should ABC decide to have any of their agents sell these government bonds
                                 to individual (sometimes referred to as retail) clients in State B, then, even though the
                                 bonds are exempt securities, both ABC and the selling agents must register in that state.
                                      The same applies to exempt transactions. One of the most common cases is when a
                                 client calls an agent to purchase a security that is not exempt and not registered in your
                                 state. But, because the transaction has been initiated by the client, as an unsolicited trade,




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 98                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:02:42 PM
                                                                             Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)        99




                                   it is an exempt transaction and, therefore, the trade may be made even though the security
                                   is not registered.
                                         One way the exam will try to trick you is by asking about an individual calling an
                                   agent from a state in which the agent is not registered. The broker-dealer is registered
                                   in that state, and the individual is a client of the firm, but not that particular agent. The
                                   individual wishes to enter an unsolicited order—can the agent accept it? No! Although
                                   the transaction is exempt (which only means that the security does not have to be regis-
                                   tered in that state), an agent can only do business with a resident of a state if the agent is
                                   properly licensed in that state. In this case, the agent would have to turn the order over to
                                   an agent who is licensed in that other state.




                                Q
                            QUICK QUIZ 2.I         Indicate an exempt transaction with Y and a nonexempt transaction with N.

                                                   ____      1.	Mr. Thompson, an agent with First Securities, Inc. (a broker-dealer),
                                                                 receives an unsolicited request to purchase a security for Mary
                                                                 Gordon, a long-time client

                                                   ____      2.	The sale of an unregistered security in a private, nonpublicly adver-
                                                                 tised transaction, offered to 10 or fewer retail investors over the
                                                                 previous 12 months

                                                   ____      3.	The sale of unclaimed securities by sheriff of Santa Fe, New Mexico

                                                   ____      4.	Sale of stock of a privately owned company to the public in an initial
                                                                 public offering

                                                   5.   Which of the following are exempt transactions?
                                                          I. A nonissuer transaction with a bank in a Nasdaq Capital Market Security
                                                         II. An unsolicited request from an existing client to purchase a nonexempt
                                                             security
                                                        III. The sale of an unregistered security in a private, nonpublicly advertised
                                                             transaction to 10 noninstitutional purchasers over a period not exceed-
                                                             ing 12 months
                                                        IV. The sale of unlisted securities by a trustee in bankruptcy
                                                        A.   I and II
                                                        B.   I, II, and III
                                                        C.   I, II, and IV
                                                        D.   I, II, III, and IV

                                                   6.   All of the following describe exempt transactions EXCEPT
                                                        A. ABC, a broker-dealer, purchases securities from XYZ Corporation as part
                                                           of an underwriting commitment
                                                        B. First National Bank sells its entire publicly traded bond portfolio to
                                                           Amalgamated National Bank
                                                        C. Amalgamated National Bank sells its publicly traded bond portfolio to
                                                           ABC Insurance Company
                                                        D. Joe Smith, an employee of Amalgamated National Bank, buys securities
                                                           from ABC Brokerage Corporation




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 99                                                                                                                      7/15/2016 2:02:42 PM
     100        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                                    7.   Under the USA, all of the following are exempt securities EXCEPT
                                                           I.   U.S. government securities
                                                          II.   unsolicited transactions
                                                         III.   transactions between issuers and underwriters
                                                         IV.    securities of federally chartered credit unions
                                                          A.    I, II and IV
                                                          B.    I and IV
                                                          C.    II and III
                                                          D.    IV only

                                                    8.   Under the rules of the Uniform Securities Act, an agent who sells shares of a
                                                         Nasdaq Stock Market security to an insurance company has engaged in (a/an)
                                                         A.     issuer transaction
                                                         B.     unsuitable transaction
                                                         C.     unlawful transaction
                                                         D.     sale exempt from the registration and advertising provisions of the USA




             2. 9            STATE SECURITIES REGISTRATION PROCEDURES
                                     The first step in the registration procedure is for the issuer or its representative to
                                 complete a registration application and file it with the state securities Administrator. The
                                 person registering the securities is known as the registrant. There are some provisions
                                 applicable to all registrations regardless of the method used. The exam will want you to
                                 know these well.


             2. 9. 1             FILING THE REGISTRATION STATEMENT
                                     State Administrators require every issuer to supply the following information on their
                                 applications:
                                 ■■ Amount of securities to be issued in the state
                                 ■■ States in which the security is to be offered, but not the amounts offered in those other
                                     states
                                 ■■ Any adverse order or judgment concerning the offering by regulatory authorities,
                                     court, or the SEC
                                 ■■ Anticipated effective date
                                 ■■ Anticipated use of the proceeds (why are we raising this money?)

                                     When filing the registration statement with the Administrator, an applicant may
                                 include documents that have been filed with the Administrator within the last five years,
                                 provided the information is current and accurate. The Administrator may, by rule or order,
                                 permit the omission of any information it considers unnecessary.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 100                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:02:42 PM
                                                                       Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)      101




                               !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT               Although most registration statements are filed by the issuer, the exam may
                                                 require you to know that they may also be filed by any selling stockholder, such
                                                 as an insider making a large block sale, or by a broker-dealer.


                        2. 9. 1. 1   Filing Fee
                                      The issuer (or any other person on whose behalf the offering is to be made) must pay a
                                 filing fee, as determined by the Administrator, when filing the registration. The filing fees
                                 are often based on a percentage of the total offering price.
                                      If the registration is withdrawn or if the Administrator issues a stop order before the
                                 registration is effective, the Administrator may retain a portion of the fee and refund the
                                 remainder to the applicant.


                        2. 9. 1. 2   Ongoing Reports
                                     The Administrator may require the person who filed the registration statement to file
                                 reports to keep the information contained in the registration statement current and to
                                 inform the Administrator of the progress of the offering.



                               !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                     These reports cannot be required more often than quarterly.


                        2. 9. 1. 3   Escrow
                                    As a condition of registration under coordination or qualification, the Administrator
                                 may require that a security be placed in escrow if the security is issued:
                                 ■■ within the past three years;
                                 ■■ to a promoter at a price substationally different than the offering price; or
                                 ■■ to any person for a consideration other than cash.

                                     In addition, the Administrator may require that the proceeds from the sale of the regis­
                                 tered security in this state be impounded until the issuer receives a specified amount from
                                 the sale of the security either in this state or elsewhere. There have been many instances
                                 where companies were unable to raise their targeted goal and just took the money and ran.
                                 This impound, or escrow, lessens the likelihood that this will happen.


                        2. 9. 1. 4   Special Subscription Form
                                     The Administrator may also require, as a condition of registration, that the issue be
                                 sold only on a form specified by the Administrator and that a copy of the form or subscrip-
                                 tion contract be filed with the Administrator or preserved for up to three years.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 101                                                                                                               7/15/2016 2:02:42 PM
     102        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                   2. 9. 1. 5         Withdrawal of Registration Statement
                                      A registration statement may not be withdrawn until one year after its effective date,
                                 if any securities of the same class are outstanding, and may be withdrawn only with the
                                 approval of the Administrator.




                             Q
                   QUICK QUIZ 2.J                   1.   With regard to the registration requirements of the Uniform Securities Act,
                                                         which of the following is NOT a correct statement?
                                                         A. Only the issuer itself can file a registration statement with the
                                                            Administrator.
                                                         B. An application for registration must indicate the amount of securities to
                                                            be issued in the state.
                                                         C. The Administrator may require registrants to file quarterly reports.
                                                         D. The Administrator may require the proceeds of an offering be placed
                                                            into an escrow account until the issuer receives a specified amount from
                                                            the sale of the security.




             2. 10           ANTIFRAUD PROVISIONS OF THE USA
                                      Fraudulent activity may occur when conducting securities sales or when providing
                                 investment advice. Each of these categories is discussed separately. In general, fraud
                                 means the deliberate or willful attempt to deceive someone for profit or gain. Any secu-
                                 rity, or transaction involving a security, exempt or nonexempt, is covered under the USA’s
                                 anti-fraud provisions. However, these provisions only apply to securities. Therefore, if the
                                 inappropriate activity occurs during the offer or sale or rendering of advice relating to
                                 something that is not a security, these anti-fraud provisions do not apply.


             2. 10. 1 FRAUDULENT AND PROHIBITED PRACTICES
                                     Although there is a legal difference between a fraudulent practice and one that is
                                 unethical or prohibited, it is highly unlikely that you will have to know that for the exam.
                                 About the only significant testable concern is that you can go to jail for committing fraud
                                 (a criminal offense) while engaging in a practice that is prohibited or unethical is gener-
                                 ally limited to a fine, and/or suspension or revocation. Most of the exam will deal with
                                 practices that are unethical, but let’s point out what the Uniform Securities Act considers
                                 fraud.
                                     State securities laws modeled on the USA address fraud by making it unlaw­ful for any
                                 person, when engaged in the offer, sale, or purchase of any security, directly or indirectly,
                                 to:
                                 ■■ employ any device, scheme, or artifice to defraud;
                                 ■■ make any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary
                                     to make a statement not misleading; or
                                 ■■ engage in any act, practice, or course of business that operates as a fraud or deceit on
                                     a person.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 102                                                                                                              7/15/2016 2:02:42 PM
                                                                            Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)      103




                                         With regard to investment advice, it is unlawful for any person who receives, directly
                                     or indirectly, any consideration from another person for advising the other person as to
                                     the value of securities or their purchase or sale, whether through the issuance of analyses
                                     or reports or otherwise, to:
                                     ■■ employ any device, scheme, or artifice to defraud the other person; or
                                     ■■ engage in any act, practice, or course of business which operates or would operate as a
                                         fraud or deceit upon the other person.

                                        There are other more specific examples related to investment advice, but we will cover
                                     them as they arise.



                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                          As long as it involves a security, there are no exceptions to the antifraud pro-
                                                     visions of state securities laws. They pertain to any person or transaction whether
                                                     the person or transaction is registered, exempt, or federal covered. Prevention
                                                     of fraud is one of the few areas of securities law over which the states have full
                                                     authority to act.

                                         The following is a list of the fraudulent acts most likely to be tested on your exam.


                        2. 10. 1. 1 Misleading or Untrue Statements
                                          Securities laws prohibit any person from making misleading or untrue statements of a
                                     material fact in connection with the purchase or sale of a security. Not all facts are mate-
                                     rial. The law defines material as information used by a prospective purchaser to make an
                                     informed investment decision. In other words, when selling securities to their clients,
                                     agents must not deliberately conceal a material fact to encourage a client to buy or sell a
                                     security. Such act would constitute deceit for personal gain.
                                          An agent providing a client with an inaccurate address of a company whose shares the
                                     client was interested in purchasing would not be making an untrue statement of a material
                                     fact. Investors do not purchase shares on the basis of the company’s street address. On the
                                     other hand, investors do make investment decisions on the basis of the qualifications of a
                                     company’s management. Those qualifications would therefore be material fact. To misstate
                                     them is fraud. An example would be claiming that the chief operating officer (COO) of a
                                     biotech company had a Ph.D. in biochemistry when, in fact, the doctorate was in sociol-
                                     ogy. It is important to note that it is the responsibility of the agent to determine what is
                                     and what is not a material fact.
                                          The following are examples of material facts that constitute fraud if misstated by
                                     agents knowingly and willfully.
                                     ■■ Inaccurate market quotations—Telling a client a stock is up when the reverse is true
                                          is obviously an improper action. However, it would not be considered fraud if the inac-
                                          curacy resulted from a malfunction of the quote machine or an unintended clerical
                                          error. To be considered fraud, the action must be deliberate.
                                     ■■ Misstatements of an issuer’s earnings or projected earnings or dividends—Telling
                                          a client that earnings are up, or that the dividend will be increased when such is not
                                          the case, is a fraudulent practice. However, it would not be fraud if you were quoting a
                                          news release that was incorrect.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 103                                                                                                                    7/15/2016 2:02:42 PM
     104        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT                       You might see a question where you have to know that it could be consid-
                                                    ered fraudulent activity for an agent or IAR to use social media to make a false
                                                    announcement about a company in order to affect the stock price.
                                 ■■ Inaccurate statements regarding the amount of commissions, markup, or mark-
                                    down—There are circumstances where the amount of commission or markup may be
                                    higher than normal. That is permissible, as long as it is disclosed properly. However,
                                    telling a client that it costs him nothing to trade with your firm because you never
                                    charge a commission, and not informing him that all trades are done on a principal
                                    basis with a markup or markdown, is fraud.



                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT                        It is important to understand that, other than in the above circumstance
                                                    where commissions may be higher than normal, a broker-dealer is not obligated
                                                    to disclose the amount of commission on any offer to sell before the transaction.
                                                    However, commissions are always required to be disclosed on the trade confirma-
                                                    tion.
                                 ■■ Stating or implying that the agent has inside information when such is not the
                                    case—As we will see shortly, the use of non-public material inside information is a
                                    fraudulent practice. But, what about the agent who attempts to boost her credibility
                                    to clients by inferring that what she is about to tell them is “inside info” and, once
                                    released, will have a major impact on the stock? Since it isn’t true, she isn’t acting on
                                    inside information, but, she is still guilty of making untrue statements.
                                 ■■ Telling a customer that a security will be listed on an exchange without concrete
                                    information concerning its listing status—Years ago, before the Nasdaq Stock Mar-
                                    ket became the home for so many leading companies, an announcement that a stock
                                    was going to be listed on the NYSE invariably caused its market price to jump. Even
                                    though it does not have the same significance today, any statement of this type relat-
                                    ing to a change in marketplace for the security is only permitted if, in fact, you have
                                    knowledge that such change is imminent.
                                 ■■ Informing a client that the registration of a security with the SEC or with the state
                                    securities Administrator means that the security has been approved by these regu-
                                    lators—Registration never implies approval.
                                 ■■ Misrepresenting the status of customer accounts—This behavior is fraudulent. Many
                                    people are not motivated to pay strict attention to their monthly account statements,
                                    making it relatively easy for an unscrupulous agent to fraudulently claim increasing
                                    values in the account when the opposite is true. Doing so would be a fraudulent action.
                                 ■■ Promising a customer services without any intent to perform them or without being
                                    properly qualified to perform them—You say, “Yes, I can” to your client, even if you
                                    know you cannot deliver. For instance, the client asks you to analyze his bond portfo-
                                    lio to determine the average duration. Even though you do not know how to do that,
                                    you agree to do so. Under the USA, you committed fraud.
                                 ■■ Representing to customers that the Administrator approves of the broker-dealer’s
                                    or agent’s abilities—This is another case of using the word approve improperly. A
                                    broker-dealer or agent is registered, not approved.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 104                                                                                                              7/15/2016 2:02:42 PM
                                                                         Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)      105




                                !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT                 Merely learning the terms is not enough to get you through the exam. On
                                                  the exam, you must be able to identify situations in which the above violations
                                                  occur. Be able to apply the concepts of fraud and unethical behavior to scenarios
                                                  that are likely to occur in everyday business.




                               *
                             CASE STUDY           Making Leading or Untrue Statements

                                                       Situation: Mr. Thompson, a registered securities agent in Illinois, informs
                                                  a long-standing client, Ms. Gordon, that her largest equity holding, First Tech
                                                  Internet Services, Inc., will be listed on the NYSE upon completion of its applica-
                                                  tion for listing. In addition, he exaggerates the earnings by $1 per share to make
                                                  her more comfortable and encourage her to buy more shares. Mr. Thompson is
                                                  convinced the earnings will rise to that amount and does not want Ms. Gordon
                                                  to sell because he believes the stock will appreciate in price once listed on the
                                                  Exchange. He also tells her that his firm will not be charging her any commission
                                                  on the trade as they already have the stock in inventory, so she will be ahead
                                                  from the start.
                                                       Analysis: Mr. Thompson violated the USA by deliberately misrepresenting
                                                  the earnings of First Tech Internet Services. Although Mr. Thompson’s motives
                                                  may have been good, he must be truthful in his effort to encourage clients to
                                                  purchase more stock—his conviction that the stock would rise upon its listing on
                                                  the NYSE is not sufficient. No violation of the act occurred with respect to First
                                                  Tech’s Exchange listing because Mr. Thompson knew that the stock had a pend-
                                                  ing application to be listed on the NYSE. To state that she will be ahead from the
                                                  start because the firm will not charge a commission, but failing to state that a sale
                                                  from inventory would include a markup, is a fraudulent act.


                        2. 10. 1. 2 Failure to State Material Facts
                                      The USA does not require an agent to provide all information about an invest-
                                  ment, but only information that is material to making an informed investment decision.
                                  However, the agent must not fail to mention material information that could affect the
                                  price of the security. In addition, the agent may not state facts that in and of themselves
                                  are true but, as a result of deliberately omitting other facts, render the recommendation
                                  misleading under the circumstances.



                                !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT                  Full disclosure also applies when filling out an order to purchase or sell securi-
                                                  ties, referred to as an order ticket. Each order ticket must disclose the account
                                                  ID, a description of the security including the number of shares if a stock and
                                                  total par value if a bond, the terms and conditions of the order (market or limit),
                                                  the time of order entry and execution, the execution price, and the identity of the
                                                  agent who accepted the order or is responsible for the account. We do not need
                                                  the client’s name or address on the order ticket.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 105                                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:02:42 PM
     106        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                             *
                      CASE STUDY                    Failure to State Material Facts

                                                         Situation: Upon NYSE acceptance of the listing application, there is an
                                                    announcement that First Tech Internet Services will publish its financial state-
                                                    ments in a newspaper advertisement. Mr. Thompson deliberately failed to men-
                                                    tion this advertisement to Ms. Gordon.
                                                         After its listing on the NYSE, the research department in Mr. Thompson’s firm
                                                    prepares a negative report on First Tech. The research department discovered
                                                    a change in accounting practices that will have a detrimental effect on subse-
                                                    quent earnings reported by First Tech. Mr. Thompson continues to recommend
                                                    the stock to Ms. Gordon because he believes the increased exposure gained by
                                                    the Exchange listing will outweigh the future decline in earnings. As a result, Mr.
                                                    Thompson neglects to inform Ms. Gordon of the change before her purchase of
                                                    additional shares.
                                                         Analysis: Mr. Thompson violated the USA even though he made no mislead-
                                                    ing statements to Ms. Gordon with respect to First Tech. Mr. Thompson did not
                                                    have to mention the advertisement in the newspaper because it is not material,
                                                    yet he violated the act when he failed to mention the accounting change that
                                                    would result in significantly lower earnings. Although an accounting change is
                                                    not ordinarily a material fact, in this case it was because it would have a det-
                                                    rimental impact on the company’s earnings and its market price. An informed
                                                    investor must have such information.


                   2. 10. 1. 3 Using Inside Information
                                      Making recommendations on the basis of material inside information about an issuer
                                 or its securities is prohibited. Should an agent come into possession of inside information,
                                 the agent must report the possession of the information to a supervisor or compliance
                                 officer. However, the use of a broker-dealer or investment adviser’s internally generated
                                 research report prior to public release is not considered use of inside information.



                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                          Material inside information under securities law is any information about a
                                                    company that has not been communicated to the general public and that would
                                                    likely affect the value of a security. Even if you acquire the information “acciden-
                                                    tally,” you cannot use it until it becomes public.




                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT                        The exam may ask you to identify who is guilty of insider trading violations—
                                                    a corporate officer of the issuer who divulges material inside information to a
                                                    friend, but no transaction takes place, or an agent who executes a trade for a
                                                    client who is acting on inside information? Simply giving someone inside informa-
                                                    tion, although imprudent, is not a violation of the law. Only when the informa-
                                                    tion is used for trading does a violation occur. In our question, the agent is in
                                                    violation for accepting an order on the basis of material nonpublic information
                                                    that results in a trade.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 106                                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:02:42 PM
                                                                       Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)      107




                               *
                             CASE STUDY           Using Inside Information

                                                       Situation: Mr. Thompson is a friend and neighbor of Mr. Cage, president
                                                  and owner of more than half of First Tech’s securities. Mr. Cage discloses to Mr.
                                                  Thompson that the company has just discovered a new technology that will
                                                  double First Tech’s earnings within the next year. No one outside of the company,
                                                  except for Mr. Thompson, knows of this discovery. On this basis, Mr. Thompson
                                                  buys additional shares of First Tech for Ms. Gordon.
                                                       Analysis: The information on First Tech’s new technology is material inside
                                                  information that has not been made public. It is material information that only
                                                  Mr. Thompson and company officials know. Mr. Thompson violated the USA by
                                                  acting on this information. Mr. Thompson should have communicated the pos-
                                                  session of the information to his compliance officer and refrained from making
                                                  recommendations on the basis of this information.



                   2. 11        DISHONEST OR UNETHICAL BUSINESS PRACTICES
                                OF BROKER-DEALERS AND AGENTS
                                       In 1983, NASAA released a Statement of Policy enumerating a large number of busi-
                                  ness practices that, when engaged in by broker-dealers or agents, they deemed dishonest
                                  or unethical. Subsequently, they have issued several Model Rules that have expanded the
                                  list. Most students report seeing at least seven questions on their Series 66 exam that are
                                  drawn from the following material, especially those relating uniquely to agents. In most
                                  cases, the listed prohibition is logical common sense, “don’t lie, don’t cheat, and don’t
                                  steal”. However, due to the nature of this exam and their legal interpretations, particu-
                                  larly for those of you without a securities or law background, further explanations will be
                                  supplied.
                                       The premise of the Policy is that each broker-dealer and agent shall observe high
                                  standards of commercial honor and just and equitable prin­ciples of trade in the conduct of
                                  their business. Acts and practices, including but not limited to those enumerated below, are
                                  considered contrary to such standards and may constitute grounds for denial, suspension or
                                  revocation of registra­tion or such other action authorized by the Uniform Securities Act.
                                  You will need to know that it is a dishonest or unethical business practice if a broker-dealer
                                  is doing any of the following (those that apply to agents as well are prefaced with an (A)).


                   2. 11. 1 DELIVERY DELAYS
                                       Engaging in a pattern of unreasonable and unjustifiable delays in the delivery of secu-
                                  rities purchased by any of its customers and/or in the payment upon request of free credit
                                  balances reflecting completed transactions of any of its customers. A free credit balance is
                                  just like a credit balance on your charge card—it is your money and must be sent to you
                                  upon request. In the event that the client requests a certificate for the security purchased,
                                  it would be considered an unethical business practice for the firm to delay delivering it to
                                  the client.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 107                                                                                                               7/15/2016 2:02:42 PM
     108        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




             2. 11. 2 CHURNING
                                      (A) Inducing trading in a customer’s account which is excessive in size or frequency in
                                 view of the financial resources, objectives, and character of the account. A key here is the
                                 word excessive. By definition, anytime something is excessive, it is too much. The regula-
                                 tors understand that different clients have different needs and ability to take risks, so what
                                 is excessive for the 80-year-old pensioner is probably not going to be so for the 40-year-old
                                 partner in a major law firm.



                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                         Excessive trading may be used on the exam instead of the word churning.



             2. 11. 3 UNSUITABLE RECOMMENDATIONS
                                     (A) Recommending to a customer the purchase, sale, or exchange of any security
                                 without reasonable grounds to believe that such transaction or recommendation is suit-
                                 able for the customer based upon reason­able inquiry concerning the customer’s invest-
                                 ment objectives, finan­cial situation and needs, and any other relevant information known
                                 by the broker-dealer.
                                     Agents must always have reasonable grounds for making recommendations to clients.
                                 Before making recommendations, the agent must inquire into the client’s financial status,
                                 investment objectives, and ability to assume financial risk. What about the client who
                                 refuses to give any financial information or discuss objectives? In that case, all the agent can
                                 do is accept unsolicited orders because there is no basis for making any recommendation.
                                     The following practices violate the suitability requirements under the USA as well as
                                 the rules of fair practice that regulatory agencies have developed. A securities professional
                                 may not:
                                 ■■ recommend securities transactions without regard to the customer’s financial situa-
                                     tion, needs, or investment objectives;
                                 ■■ induce transactions solely to generate commissions (churning), defined as transac-
                                     tions in customer accounts that are excessive in size or frequency in relation to the
                                     client’s financial resources, objectives, or the character of the account;
                                 ■■ recommend a security without reasonable grounds;
                                 ■■ make blanket recommendations. That is, it will almost always be unsuitable if the
                                     same security is recommended to the majority of your clients. How could all of them
                                     have the same needs? Some are looking for income, some for growth, and some for
                                     safety, and no one security can provide all three; and
                                 ■■ fail to sufficiently describe the important facts and risks concerning a transaction or
                                     security.




                             *
                      CASE STUDY                    Making Unsuitable Investment Recommendations

                                                        Situation: Mr. Thompson has a wide variety of clients: high-net-worth indi-
                                                    viduals, trusts, retirees with limited incomes and resources, and college students.
                                                    Mr. Thompson has strong beliefs about First Tech, a growth stock that pays




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 108                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:02:42 PM
                                                                           Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)      109




                                                     no dividends. He aggressively recommends the stock to all his clients without
                                                     informing them of the volatility of First Tech and the firm’s research department’s
                                                     pending downgrade in earnings.
                                                          Analysis: Mr. Thompson has violated the USA on several counts. First, he
                                                     made a recommendation without regard to the separate financial conditions,
                                                     needs, and objectives of his diverse client base. The recommendation is unsuit-
                                                     able for the investment objectives of his retired clients with fixed incomes and
                                                     limited financial resources. In addition, he made the recommendation in an
                                                     unsuitable manner by failing to reveal the earnings volatility or risk and the
                                                     downgrade in earnings.




                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                           So, what do you do when you think you’ve made a totally appropriate rec-
                                                     ommendation to your client, but your client is not happy with it. Upon reflection,
                                                     you realize the client’s problem is a lack of understanding of both the recommen-
                                                     dation and the marketplace. What should you do? Most would agree that the
                                                     first step would be to attempt to impart some education to the client in an effort
                                                     to make your recommendation clearer. However, as with all customer issues, the
                                                     client is the one who has to make the final decision.


                        2. 11. 3. 1 Free Lunch Seminars
                                         (A) Although not specifically included in the NASAA Statement of Policy, recent
                                     rules regarding unfair business practices, especially with regard to seniors, may be included
                                     on your exam. The most common instance is the so-called free lunch seminar. These semi-
                                     nars are widely offered by financial services firms seeking to sell financial products and they
                                     often include a free meal for attendees. Even though many of these seminars are promoted
                                     as being educational or workshops accompanied by the statement, “nothing will be sold
                                     at this meeting,” the seminars are clearly intended to result in the attendees’ opening new
                                     accounts with the sponsoring firm and, ultimately, in the sale of investment products, if
                                     not at the seminar itself, then in follow-up contacts with the attendees.
                                         If not clearly presented, NASAA will consider that both the sponsoring firm and
                                     those agents involved in the delivery of the seminar are committing a prohibited business
                                     practice.


                   2. 11. 4 UNAUTHORIZED TRANSACTIONS
                                          (A) Executing a transaction on behalf of a customer without authoriza­tion to do so.
                                     Unless discretionary authorization (see following) has been received, broker-dealers and
                                     their agents may never enter an order for a client on their own volition, even when it is
                                     in the best interest of the client. You may be asked a question where a spouse of a client
                                     or other person with a strong personal relationship contacts the agent with transaction
                                     instructions, allegedly on behalf of the client. Unless there is a written third-party trading
                                     authorization on file, no activity can take place.
                                          Somewhat related to this activity is deliberately failing to follow a customer’s instruc-
                                     tions. In this case, the client has given the terms of the order and if the agent decides to
                                     purchase more or less than ordered, or in any other way change the nature of the order, it
                                     is a prohibited practice.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 109                                                                                                                   7/15/2016 2:02:42 PM
     110        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




             2. 11. 5 EXERCISING DISCRETION
                                      (A) Exercising any discretionary power in effecting a transaction for a customer’s
                                 account without first obtaining written discretionary authority from the customer, unless
                                 the discretionary power relates solely to the time and/or price for the executing of orders.
                                      Agents of broker-dealers may not exercise discretion in an account without prior writ-
                                 ten authority (power of attorney) from the client. Prior written authority is also known as
                                 trading authorization.
                                      Discretion is given to an agent by the client when the client authorizes (in writing)
                                 the agent to act on his own and use his discretion in deciding any or all of the following
                                 for the client:
                                 ■■ Asset (security)
                                 ■■ Action (buy or sell)
                                 ■■ Amount (how many shares)

                                     However, merely authorizing an agent to determine the best price or time to trade a
                                 security is not considered to be discretion for purposes of the financial requirements, such
                                 as bonding or, in the case of an investment adviser, minimum net worth.




                             *
                      CASE STUDY                    Discretionary Trading Authorization

                                                          Situation: Mr. Thompson’s client, Mr. Bixby, has indicated over the phone
                                                    that he authorizes Mr. Thompson to make trades for him. Mr. Bixby’s fam-
                                                    ily lawyer, Mr. Derval, has specific power of attorney over some of Mr. Bixby’s
                                                    businesses. Mr. Bixby promised Mr. Thompson that he would send in the trading
                                                    authorization within the next day or two to give Mr. Thompson discretion over
                                                    the account. However, Mr. Thompson immediately executed trades in First Tech
                                                    for Mr. Bixby to take advantage of its impending NYSE listing.
                                                          The following week, Mr. Thompson received Mr. Bixby’s written discretion-
                                                    ary trading authorization. On the day after the authorization arrived, Mr. Bixby’s
                                                    attorney, Mr. Derval, indicated that Mr. Bixby would like to buy shares in Colonel
                                                    Electric. Because Mr. Derval is the attorney for Mr. Bixby, Mr. Thompson bought
                                                    the shares.
                                                          Analysis: Mr. Thompson violated the USA by trading in Mr. Bixby’s account
                                                    before receipt of the written trading authorization. Having authorization in the
                                                    mail is not sufficient. Mr. Thompson also violated the USA by accepting the order
                                                    from Mr. Derval because although he is Mr. Bixby’s attorney, he was not specifi-
                                                    cally authorized to trade in Mr. Bixby’s securities account. The trading authoriza-
                                                    tion signed by Mr. Bixby only gave authority to Mr. Thompson. Had Mr. Derval
                                                    provided Mr. Thompson with specific written third-party trading authorization
                                                    from Mr. Bixby, Mr. Thompson then could have accepted the order for Colonel
                                                    Electric without a violation of the act.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 110                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:02:43 PM
                                                                   Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)      111




                   2. 11. 6 MARGIN DOCUMENTS
                                 (A) Executing any transaction in a margin account without securing from the cus-
                             tomer a properly executed written margin agreement promptly after the initial transaction
                             in the account.


                   2. 11. 7 COMMINGLING OF CUSTOMER AND FIRM ASSETS
                                  Failing to segregate customers’ free securities or securities held in safekeeping. Customer
                             “free” securities are those which have no lien against them (just like one might have a lien
                             against your car). Securities are pledged as collateral in a margin account.
                                  Securities that are held in a customer’s name must not be commingled (mixed) with
                             securities of the firm.
                                  If a firm has 100,000 shares of ABCD common stock in its own proprietary account
                             and its clients separately own an additional 100,000 shares, the firm may not place cus-
                             tomer shares in the firm’s proprietary account.
                                  To mix shares together would give undue leverage or borrowing power to a firm and
                             could jeopardize the security of client securities in the event of default.
                                  One area of particular concern is brokerage firms maintaining margin accounts for
                             their clients. In a margin account, the broker-dealer extends credit for the purchase of
                             eligible securities and then uses those securities as collateral for the margin debt (loan).
                             The pledging of these margin securities is known as hypothecation. There are strict rules
                             regarding how much of the client’s securities may be hypothecated and requiring that the
                             balance be segregated from the firm’s own securities.


                   2. 11. 8 IMPROPER HYPOTHECATION
                                 Hypothecating a customer’s securities without having a lien thereon unless the
                             broker-dealer secures from the customer a properly exe­cuted written consent promptly
                             after the initial transaction, except as permitted by rules of the Securities and Exchange
                             Commission. As indicated previously, there are strict rules to be followed, the details of
                             which will not be tested.


                   2. 11. 9 UNREASONABLE COMMISSIONS OR MARK-UPS
                                  (A) Entering into a transaction with or for a customer at a price not reasonably related
                             to the current market price of the security or receiv­ing an unreasonable commission or
                             profit.
                                  There is one way that a broker-dealer might make a very large profit and it would
                             not be considered unreasonable. When acting in a dealer (or principal) capacity, broker-
                             dealers sell out of inventory. What would be the situation if a firm bought some securities
                             for their inventory and, several months later, the value of those securities had doubled
                             or tripled? What would be a fair price to charge customers? The rules make it clear that
                             quotes are always based on the current market so, in this case, the broker-dealer would
                             make a substantial profit. By the way, this “sword cuts both ways.” If the firm had stock
                             in inventory that decreased greatly in value, the firm would not be able to pass any of the
                             loss to clients—any sales would take place based on the current depressed market prices.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 111                                                                                                           7/15/2016 2:02:43 PM
     112        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                   2. 11. 9. 1 Higher Than Normal Commissions
                                     NASAA recognizes that not all broker-dealers offer the same level of services and that
                                 those who offer a large array of services to their clients may charge more without it being
                                 considered an unethical business practice. In other cases, a particular transaction may
                                 involve more expense to the broker-dealers, particularly in a thinly traded security, and
                                 that too would justify a charge that is higher than normal. Of course, all charges must be
                                 clearly disclosed to clients. If not, a violation has occurred.


             2. 11. 10 TIMELY PROSPECTUS DELIVERY
                                     (A) Failing to furnish to a customer purchasing securities in an offering, no later than
                                 the due date of confirmation of the transaction, either a final prospectus or a preliminary
                                 prospectus.
                                     Here is further detail from the USA that might answer a question on the exam:
                                 The Administrator may, by rule or order, require as a condition of registration under
                                 Coordination, that a prospectus be sent or given to each person to whom an offer is made
                                 no later than with confirmation of the trade. Of course, one must always be sent to a per-
                                 son who actually purchases the security. The Administrator may require that a prospectus
                                 for a security registered under Qualification be sent or given to each person to whom an
                                 offer is made prior to the sale of the security rather than prior to the offer.


             2. 11. 11 UNREASONABLE SERVICING FEES
                                     Charging unreasonable and inequitable fees for services performed, including mis-
                                 cellaneous services such as collection of monies due for principal, dividends or interest,
                                 exchange or transfer of securities, appraisals, safekeeping, or custody of securities and other
                                 services related to its securities business. However, as long as these charges are not unrea-
                                 sonable, they would be permitted for performing these services.


                   2. 11. 11. 1 Disclosure of Fees
                                     In 2015, NASAA published an investor advisory regarding fees charged by broker-
                                 dealer firms for services and maintenance of investment accounts. The advisory followed
                                 research from NASAA, showing that investors are confused about brokerage services and
                                 maintenance fees and want clear and easy access to fee information from their broker-
                                 dealer firms. A national public opinion poll commissioned by NASAA found that fees are
                                 important to investors, but a general lack of standardization and clarity in their disclosures
                                 has left investors unaware of how much their broker-dealer firms charge for the service and
                                 maintenance of their investment accounts. Here are some ways that broker-dealers can
                                 make the disclosures easier for customers to follow:
                                 ■■ Fees are typically disclosed when a customer account is opened. If the firm changes the
                                     fee schedule, be clear about it, and be sure to use appropriate methods to give advance
                                     notification of the changes to the customer.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 112                                                                                                         7/15/2016 2:02:43 PM
                                                                           Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)      113




                                     ■■ Minimize the fine print, or at least make the fees and charges clear. Whether using a
                                        table, a chart, or a list, make sure it is easy for customers to determine what the fees
                                        and charges are and how they are computed.
                                     ■■ Use standardized and uncomplicated terms to describe service and maintenance fees
                                        in order to help clients compare fees between different firms.




                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E               A working group convened by NASAA has developed a model fee disclosure
                                                     schedule and related accessibility guidelines to help investors better understand
                                                     and compare various broker-dealer service- and maintenance-related fees. The
                                                     template and guidelines make fee disclosure easily accessible for retail investors to
                                                     use to understand and compare fees.


                                     2. 11. 11. 1. 1          Typical Broker-Dealer Fees
                                         Examples of the more common fees that might be charged by a broker-dealer include
                                     the following:
                                     ■■ Issuance of a stock certificate. Although most securities are kept in street name, there
                                         could be instances where the customer wants delivery of the physical certificate. There
                                         is usually a charge for this service.
                                     ■■ Transferring an account. When a client decides to move the account from one broker-
                                         dealer to another, there is usually a charge to cover the administrative expenses of the
                                         transfer.
                                     ■■ Wiring funds. Although frequently waived for those with large account balances, if
                                         the client needs money wired out of the account, a charge, similar to that made by
                                         most banks, is levied against the account.
                                     ■■ Margin account interest. When purchasing on margin, money is borrowed and the
                                         rate of interest charged on the borrowed funds must be disclosed.
                                     ■■ Account maintenance fees. Similar to the monthly charge on your bank statement,
                                         many firms charge an annual account fee, particularly if a small account.
                                     ■■ Safekeeping of funds/securities. This is the charge made for maintaining custody of
                                         client assets, which is usually waived for larger accounts.
                                     ■■ Late settlement fee. This is similar to the late fee on a credit card. When a client’s
                                         payment arrives after settlement date (or is returned due to insufficient funds), the
                                         broker-dealer may asses a fee.
                                     ■■ Postage and handling. Although many firms absorb the cost of normal mailings,
                                         express or overnight delivery at the request of the client is usually subject to a charge

                                        This is not a complete list, but it includes the most common charges. What is most
                                     important for the exam is that all of the fees must be disclosed.




                                  !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                         Not included in the fee disclosure documents are:
                                                         ■■ commissions,




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 113                                                                                                                   7/15/2016 2:02:43 PM
     114        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                                         ■■ markups and markdowns, and

                                                         ■■ advisory fees.

                                                         There are other documents where those disclosures are made.



             2. 11. 12 DISHONORING QUOTES
                                     Offering to buy from or sell to any person any security at a stated price unless such
                                 broker-dealer is prepared to purchase or sell, as the case may be, at such price and under
                                 such conditions as are stated at the time of such offer to buy or sell.
                                     In other words, if a broker-dealer quotes a stock at 20.60 to 20.75, he had better be
                                 ready to sell at least the minimum trading unit (usually 100 shares) to a client at $20.75
                                 per share (his ask or offering price), or buy from a client at $20.60 (his bid price).


             2. 11. 13 MARKET MANIPULATION
                                     (A) Effecting any transaction in, or inducing the purchase or sale of, any security
                                 by means of any manipulative, deceptive, or fraudulent device, practice, plan, program,
                                 design, or contrivance.
                                     Securities legislation is designed to uphold the integrity of markets and transactions
                                 in securities. However, market integrity is violated when transactions misrepresent actual
                                 securities prices or market activity. The most common forms of market manipulation are
                                 matched orders and wash trades.
                                     Matched orders occur when an order to buy or sell securities is entered with knowl-
                                 edge that a matching order on the opposite side of the transaction has been or will be
                                 entered for the purpose of (1) creating a false or misleading appearance of active trading
                                 in any publicly traded security or (2) creating a false or misleading appearance with respect
                                 to the market for any such security.
                                     Increased volume in a security can induce unsuspecting investors to purchase the
                                 security, thereby bidding up the price. As the price rises, participants who initiated the
                                 matched orders sell their securities at a profit.
                                     A wash trade is an order to buy or sell securities resulting in no change of ben-
                                 eficial ownership for the purpose of (1) creating a false or misleading appearance of
                                 active trading in any publicly traded security; or (2) creating a false or misleading
                                 appearance with respect to the market for any such security. This is typically done by
                                 an investor buying in one brokerage account and simultaneously selling through another.
                                 No real change in ownership has occurred, but to the marketplace, it appears that volume
                                 and/or price is increasing.



                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         So, what is the difference between a matched order and a wash trade? Keep-
                                                    ing it simple (because the exam only wants you to know they’re both prohibited),
                                                    wash trades are trades in which the (natural or legal) person who is the beneficial
                                                    owner of the traded securities does not change, even though this is the impres-
                                                    sion conveyed to the public. In other words, in a wash sale, it is the same investor
                                                    trading in two or more accounts owned or controlled by that single investor. In




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 114                                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:02:43 PM
                                                                            Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)      115




                                                     the case of matched orders, these are pre-arranged entries of equal but opposite
                                                     buy and sell orders in the same security made between different parties with the
                                                     intention to distort the public impression of actual liquidity or prices. There is a
                                                     change in ownership, but the attempt is to deceive.




                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                           Arbitrage is the simultaneous buying and selling of the same security in
                                                     different markets to take advantage of different prices; it is not a form of market
                                                     manipulation. Simultaneously buying a security in one market and selling it in
                                                     another forces prices to converge and, therefore, provides uniform prices for the
                                                     general public.



                   2. 11. 14 GUARANTEEING AGAINST LOSS
                                         (A) Guaranteeing a customer against loss in any securities account of such customer
                                     carried by the broker-dealer or in any securities trans­action effected by the broker-dealer
                                     or in any securities transaction effected by the broker-dealer with or for such customer.
                                         Unfortunately, it is not uncommon in the industry for a securities professional to tell
                                     a client something to the effect of, “If this stock doesn’t earn X% within the next three
                                     months, I’ll make up the difference,” or, “I am so sure you won’t lose on this investment
                                     that I’ll buy it back from you at your cost plus 10%.” Both of these are considered perfor-
                                     mance guarantees and are prohibited actions.



                                  !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                          The term guaranteed under the USA means “guaranteed as to payment of
                                                     principal, interest, or dividends.” It is allowable to refer to a guaranteed security
                                                     when an entity other than the issuer is making the guarantee. However, the
                                                     regulatory agencies of the securities industry prohibit securities professionals from
                                                     guaranteeing the performance returns of an investment or portfolio.



                   2. 11. 15 DISSEMINATING FALSE TRADING INFORMATION
                                         (A) Publishing or circulating, or causing to be published or circulated, any notice,
                                     circular, advertisement, newspaper article, investment service, or communication of any
                                     kind which purports to report any transaction as a purchase or sale of any security unless
                                     such broker-dealer believes that such transaction was a bona fide purchase or sale or such
                                     security; or which purports to quote the bid price or asked price for any security, unless
                                     such broker-dealer believes that such quotation represents a bona fide bid for, or offer of,
                                     such security.


                   2. 11. 16 DECEPTIVE ADVERTISING PRACTICES
                                         (A) Using any advertising or sales presentation in such a fashion as to be deceptive or
                                     misleading. An example of such practice would be a distribution of any nonfactual data,




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 115                                                                                                                    7/15/2016 2:02:43 PM
     116        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                 material or presentation based on conjecture, unfounded or unrealistic claims or asser-
                                 tions in any brochure, flyer, or display by words, pictures, graphs, or otherwise designed to
                                 supplement, detract from, supersede, or defeat the purpose or effect of any prospectus or
                                 disclosure.
                                      One way in which this violation occurs is when a broker-dealer or agent prepares a
                                 sales brochure for a new issue but includes only the positive information from the prospec-
                                 tus. Leaving out risk factors and other potential “deal-killing” information is prohibited.
                                 Somewhat related, and also prohibited, is highlighting or making any other marks on a
                                 prospectus to draw attention to key points.


             2. 11. 17 FAILING TO DISCLOSE CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
                                     Failing to disclose that the broker-dealer is controlled by, control­ling, affiliated with
                                 or under common control with the issuer of any security before entering into any contract
                                 with or for a customer for the purchase or sale of such security, the existence of such control
                                 to such customer, and if such disclosure is not made in writing, it shall be supplemented by
                                 the giving or sending of written disclosure at or before the completion of the transaction.
                                 One of the most common examples of a conflict of interest that must be disclosed is when
                                 the agent is offering a proprietary product, such as a house fund (a mutual fund where the
                                 underwriter or adviser is affiliated with the broker-dealer) or a limited partnership offering
                                 (DPP) where the sponsor is an affiliate of the broker-dealer.
                                     Some other examples of potential conflicts of interest are:
                                 ■■ program sponsors, such as investment companies or insurance companies, providing
                                     incentives or rewards to agents for selling the sponsors’ products;
                                 ■■ a securities professional having a financial interest in any security being recommended;
                                 ■■ a broker-dealer going public and placing shares of its own stock into discretionary
                                     accounts; and
                                 ■■ a broker-dealer publishing a favorable research report after underwriting the issuer’s
                                     stock offering.

                                    Suppose you were selling shares of a company where your sister was a control person?
                                 Do you think you’d have to disclose that potential conflict to your clients? Yes!


             2. 11. 18 WITHHOLDING SHARES OF A PUBLIC OFFERING
                                      Failing to make a bona fide public offering of all of the securities allotted to a broker-
                                 dealer for distribution, whether acquired as an underwriter, a selling group member, or
                                 from a member participating in the distribution as an underwriter or selling group member.
                                 If the firm is fortunate to be part of the underwriting of one of these IPOs that rockets in
                                 price because the issue is oversubscribed, they better be sure to allocate the shares to cli-
                                 ents in an equitable manner and not keep any for themselves.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 116                                                                                                         7/15/2016 2:02:43 PM
                                                                         Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)      117




                   2. 11. 19 RESPONDING TO COMPLAINTS
                                      (A) Failure or refusal to furnish a customer, upon reasonable request, information to
                                  which he is entitled, or to respond to a formal written request or complaint.
                                      When a written complaint is received by the firm (and only written complaints are
                                  recognized), action must be taken. The complainant (customer) would be notified that
                                  the complaint had been received and an entry would be made in the firm’s complaint file.
                                  If an agent were the subject of the complaint, the agent would be notified, but would not
                                  be given a copy of the complaint (agents do not have recordkeeping requirements). If the
                                  complaint is received by the agent rather than the firm, the agent must report the com-
                                  plaint to the appropriate supervisor. If the complaint is sent by email, that is considered
                                  in writing.


                        2. 11. 19. 1 Reporting errors
                                      In order to keep from generating complaints, any trade or other operational error, once
                                  discovered, must be reported by the agent to the appropriate supervisory person.



                                !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                     A complaint received by electronic means (email) is considered a written
                                                  complaint.



                   2. 11. 20 FRONT RUNNING
                                      (A) Front running is the unethical business practice of a broker-dealer or one of its
                                  representatives placing a personal order ahead of a previously received customer order. It
                                  occurs most frequently when the firm has received an insti­tutional order of sufficient size
                                  to move the market. By running in front of the order, the firm or representative can profit
                                  on that movement.




                               *
                             CASE STUDY           Practices—Customer Complaints and Front Running

                                                       Situation: Mr. Thompson, an agent with First Securities, a broker-dealer, rec-
                                                  ommends to his client, Mr. Byers, that he purchase ABC Shoe Co., a thinly traded
                                                  chain store that First Securities’s analysts have highly recommended subsequent
                                                  to its initial public offering. Mr. Byers agrees. Just before entering Mr. Byers’s
                                                  order, Mr. Thompson purchases several hundred shares for himself. Mr. Byers
                                                  learned of Mr. Thompson’s purchase and wrote him a stinging letter of complaint
                                                  about it. Because Mr. Thompson considered the transaction a private matter, he
                                                  did not think it necessary to bring the letter to the attention of First Securities. A
                                                  few days later, Mr. Thompson personally apologized to Mr. Byers and took him
                                                  out for a drink.
                                                       Analysis: Mr. Thompson has engaged in two practices that violate industry
                                                  practice. First, although the recommendation of ABC Shoe Co. was perfectly




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 117                                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:02:43 PM
     118        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                                    appropriate, it was not appropriate for Mr. Thompson to enter his personal order
                                                    for the same shares before completing Mr. Byers’s purchase. This is known as
                                                    front running, a prohibited practice. Additionally, Mr. Thompson (as a registered
                                                    agent) must bring all written complaints to the attention of his employer. Had
                                                    Mr. Byers simply lodged an oral complaint, Mr. Thompson would not have been
                                                    under an obligation to bring it to the attention of the manager of his office. Tak-
                                                    ing Mr. Byers out for a drink did not violate industry standards.



             2. 11. 21 SPREADING RUMORS
                                     (A) Any agent hearing a rumor must report it to the appropriate supervisor. Broker-
                                 dealers must insure that rumors they become aware of are not spread or used in any way,
                                 particularly not as the basis for recommendations.


             2. 11. 22 BACKDATING RECORDS
                                     (A) All records and documents must reflect their actual dates. Although there can
                                 be tax or other benefits to clients when their trade confirmations are backdated, it is an
                                 unethical business practice to do so.


             2. 11. 23 WAIVERS
                                      The USA makes it clear that any condition, stipulation, or provision binding any
                                 person acquiring any security or receiving any investment advice to waive compliance
                                 with any provision of the Act or any rule or order hereunder is void. For exam purposes,
                                 if you are given a question where clients agree to waive their rights to sue, the agreement
                                 is null and void.


             2. 11. 24 INVESTMENT COMPANY SALES
                                     (A) In 1997, NASAA adopted the NASAA Statement of Policy titled Dishonest
                                 or Unethical Business Practices by Broker-Dealers and Agents in Connection with
                                 Investment Company Shares. Several of those items are currently being tested. Under this
                                 Policy, any broker-dealer or agent who engages in one or more of the following practices
                                 shall be deemed to have engaged in “dishonest or unethical practices in the securities busi-
                                 ness” as used in the Uniform Securities Act, and such conduct may constitute grounds for
                                 denial, suspension, or revocation of registration or such other action authorized by statute.


                   2. 11. 24. 1 Sales Load Communications
                                     In connection with the solicitation of investment company shares, stating or implying
                                 to a customer that the shares are sold without a commission, are “no load” or have “no
                                 sales charge” if there is associated with the purchase of the shares:
                                 ■■ any front-end load;




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 118                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:02:43 PM
                                                                     Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)      119




                                ■■ any contingent deferred sales load (CDSC); or
                                ■■ a Rule 12b-1 fee or a service fee if such fees in total exceed .25% of average net fund
                                   assets per year.


                        2. 11. 24. 2 Breakpoints
                                    In connection with the solicitation of investment company shares, failing to disclose
                                to any customer any relevant:
                                ■■ sales charge discount on the purchase of shares in dollar amounts at or above a break-
                                    point; or
                                ■■ letter of intent feature, if available, which will reduce the sales charges.


                        2. 11. 24. 3 Selling Dividends
                                    In connection with the solicitation of investment company shares, stating or implying
                                to a customer that:
                                ■■ the purchase of such shares shortly before an ex-dividend date is advantageous to such
                                    customer unless there are specific, clearly described tax or other advantages to the
                                    customer; or
                                ■■ a distribution of long-term capital gains by an investment company is part of the
                                    income yield from an investment in such shares.


                        2. 11. 24. 4 Share Classes
                                    In connection with the solicitation of investment company shares, recommending to
                                a customer the purchase of a specific class of investment company shares in connection
                                with a multi-class sales charge or fee arrangement without reasonable grounds to believe
                                that the sales charge or fee arrangement associated with such class of shares is suitable and
                                appropriate based on the customer’s investment objectives, financial situation and other
                                securities holdings, and the associated transaction or other fees.


                        2. 11. 24. 5 Switching Funds
                                     In connection with the solicitation of investment company shares, recommending to
                                a customer the liquidation or redemption of investment company shares for the purpose of
                                purchasing shares in a different investment company portfolio having similar investment
                                objectives and policies without reasonable grounds to believe that such recommendation
                                is suitable and appropriate based on the customer’s investment objectives, financial situ-
                                ation and other securities holdings, and any associated transaction charges or other fees.


                        2. 11. 24. 6 Proper Yield Disclosures
                                    In connection with the solicitation of investment company shares, stating or implying
                                to a customer the fund’s current yield or income without disclosing the fund’s most recent
                                average annual return, calculated in a manner prescribed in SEC Form N-1A, for 1-, 5-




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 119                                                                                                             7/15/2016 2:02:43 PM
     120        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                 and 10-year periods and fully explaining the difference between current yield and total
                                 return; provided, however, that if the fund’s registration statement under the Securities
                                 Act of 1933 has been in effect for less than 1, 5, or 10 years, the time during which the reg-
                                 istration statement was in effect shall be substituted for the periods otherwise prescribed.


             2. 11. 25 LENDING OR BORROWING
                                      (A) Engaging in the practice of lending to or borrowing money or securities from a
                                 customer.
                                      Securities professionals may not borrow money or securities from a client unless the
                                 client is a broker-dealer, an affiliate of the professional, or a financial institution engaged
                                 in the business of loaning money.
                                      Securities professionals may not loan money to clients unless the firm is a broker-dealer
                                 or financial institution engaged in the business of loaning funds or the client is an affiliate.




                             *
                      CASE STUDY                    Borrowing Money or Securities from Clients

                                                          Situation: On occasion, Mr. Thompson borrows cash from his discretion-
                                                    ary client, Mr. Bixby, when Mr. Bixby’s account is not fully invested. Mr. Bixby
                                                    has given Mr. Thompson much latitude because Mr. Thompson has done well
                                                    in managing the account and Mr. Thompson always repays the money in time
                                                    to reinvest Mr. Bixby’s funds in new securities purchases. Mr. Thompson justifies
                                                    these borrowings as within the discretionary power Mr. Bixby had granted him.
                                                    The First National Bank is also a client of Mr. Thompson, but he does not borrow
                                                    from the bank because it charges unusually high interest rates.
                                                          Analysis: Mr. Thompson has engaged in a prohibited practice because secu-
                                                    rities professionals may not borrow from customers who are not in the business
                                                    of lending money. Furthermore, Mr. Thompson violated the USA in exceeding
                                                    the specific discretionary authority that Mr. Bixby had authorized. Mr. Bixby had
                                                    authorized Mr. Thompson to trade in securities—not to take his money for per-
                                                    sonal use. Had Mr. Thompson decided to borrow from The First National Bank,
                                                    it would have been permitted because it is an entity engaged in the business of
                                                    lending money.




                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                          As a former President of the United States once said, “Let me make one
                                                    thing perfectly clear.” When it comes to borrowing or lending money, you cannot
                                                    borrow from any client (including your mother), unless that client is a lending
                                                    institution such as a bank or credit union. Be careful—mortgage brokers are not
                                                    in the business of lending money. They put the borrower and the lender together,
                                                    which is why they are called brokers. Likewise, as an agent, you can never lend
                                                    money to any client unless the client has some kind of affiliation with your firm.
                                                    If your broker-dealer handles margin accounts, then, of course, money can be
                                                    loaned to clients. Don’t take this personally, just get the questions right on the
                                                    exam.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 120                                                                                                               7/15/2016 2:02:43 PM
                                                                        Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)      121




                   2. 11. 26 PRACTICES RELATING SOLELY TO AGENTS

                        2. 11. 26. 1 Selling Away
                                      Effecting securities transactions not recorded on the regular books or records of the
                                  broker-dealer which the agent represents, unless the transactions are authorized in writing
                                  by the broker-dealer prior to execution of the transaction.




                               *
                             CASE STUDY           Practices—Trades Not on the Books

                                                       Situation: Mr. Thompson, a registered agent for First Securities, Inc., of Illi-
                                                  nois, is also a part owner of Computer Resources, Inc., a privately held company
                                                  in the state. Mr. Thompson is also a friend of Mr. Byers, the chairman of Aircraft
                                                  Parts, Inc., a large manufacturing company traded on the NYSE. Mr. Byers has an
                                                  account with Mr. Thompson at First Securities.
                                                       Mr. Thompson decides to sell his shares in Computer Resources to one of
                                                  his clients. Because the shares are not publicly traded, Mr. Thompson completes
                                                  the trades without informing First Securities or recording the transaction on their
                                                  books. Mr. Thompson believes there is no need to inform his employer because
                                                  the transaction was private. On the following day, Mr. Byers calls Mr. Thompson
                                                  and indicates that he would like to sell his shares in Aircraft Parts. Mr. Thomp-
                                                  son, who now has plenty of liquid assets from the sale of his shares in Computer
                                                  Resources, decides to buy the shares directly from Mr. Byers. Mr. Thompson does
                                                  not record the trade on the records of First Securities because he considers it a
                                                  private transaction between himself and Mr. Byers.
                                                       Analysis: In both cases, Mr. Thompson has engaged in a prohibited practice.
                                                  A registered agent may not conduct transactions with customers of his employing
                                                  broker-dealer that are not recorded on the books without prior written consent. It
                                                  makes no difference whether the shares Mr. Thompson sold were privately held;
                                                  when an agent effects trades with clients of the firm, the transactions must be
                                                  recorded on the books of the firm unless prior written authorization is obtained
                                                  from the firm.




                                !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                       The exam may refer to this as a trade made off the books of the broker-
                                                  dealer. Just remember that it is considered to be a prohibited practice anytime an
                                                  agent effects securities transactions not recorded on the regular books or records
                                                  of the broker-dealer the agent represents, unless the transactions are authorized
                                                  in writing by the broker-dealer before execution of the transaction.


                        2. 11. 26. 2 Fictitious Accounts
                                      Establishing or maintaining an account containing fictitious infor­mation in order to
                                  execute transactions which would otherwise be prohibited. Examples of this kind of con-
                                  duct sometimes given on the exam are “beefing up” a client’s net worth to enable him
                                  to engage in margin or options trading, or making him appear to have more investment
                                  experience than is true.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 121                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:02:43 PM
     122        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                   2. 11. 26. 3 Sharing in Accounts
                                     Sharing directly or indirectly in profits or losses in the account of any customer with-
                                 out the written authorization of the customer and the broker-dealer which the agent
                                 represents.
                                     Agents cannot share in the profits or losses of client accounts unless the client and the
                                 broker-dealer supply prior written approval. In such a situation, it would be permissible to
                                 commingle the agent’s and the customer’s funds because they have a joint account.



                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                        Unlike agents, broker-dealers, investment advisers, and investment adviser
                                                    representatives are never permitted to share in the profits or losses in their client’s
                                                    accounts.


                   2. 11. 26. 4 Splitting Commissions
                                      Dividing or otherwise splitting the agent’s commissions, profits, or other compensa-
                                 tion from the purchase or sale of securities with any person not also registered as an agent
                                 for the same broker-dealer, or for a broker-dealer under direct or indirect common control.
                                 Interestingly enough, they can do this without disclosing the split to their clients, unless
                                 it increases the transaction cost to the client. This is one of the very rare cases where dis-
                                 closure is not necessary.




                             Q
                   QUICK QUIZ 2.K

                                                    ____
                                                         Write U for unlawful or prohibited activities and L for lawful activities.

                                                              1.	An agent guarantees a client that funds invested in mutual funds
                                                                  made up of government securities cannot lose principal.

                                                    ____      2.	A nondiscretionary customer calls his agent and places a buy order
                                                                  for 1,000 shares of any hot internet company. Later in the day, the
                                                                  agent enters an order for 1,000 shares of Global Internet Services.

                                                    ____      3.	An agent receives a call from his client’s spouse, advising him to
                                                                  sell her husband’s securities. Her husband is out of the country and
                                                                  requested that his wife call the agent. The agent refuses because the
                                                                  wife does not have trading authorization, and she complains vigor-
                                                                  ously to his manager.

                                                    ____      4.	A client writes a letter of complaint to his agent regarding securi-
                                                                  ties that the agent had recommended. The agent calls the client to
                                                                  apologize and then disposes of the letter because the client seemed
                                                                  satisfied.

                                                    ____      5.	A registered agent borrows $10,000 from a credit union that is one
                                                                  of her best customers.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 122                                                                                                                    7/15/2016 2:02:43 PM
                                                    Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)      123




                             ____      6.	An agent is convinced that Internet Resources will rise significantly
                                           over the next 3 months. She offers to buy the stock back from her
                                           customers at 10% higher than its current price at any time during
                                           the next 3 months.

                             ____      7.	An agent receives an order for the purchase of an obscure foreign
                                           security. The agent informs the client that the commissions and
                                           charges on this purchase will be much higher than those of domestic
                                           securities.

                             ____      8.	An agent who works for a small broker-dealer that employs no
                                           securities analysts assures her clients that she can analyze any pub-
                                           licly traded security better than any analyst and that she will do it
                                           personally for each security purchased by a client, regardless of the
                                           industry.

                             ____      9.	An agent recommends that her client buy 1,000 shares of Internet
                                           Consultants, Inc., an unregistered nonexempt security with a bright
                                           future.

                             10. Market manipulation is one of the prohibited practices under the Uniform
                                 Securities Act. Which of the following is an example of a broker-dealer
                                 engaging in market manipulation?
                                  I.   Churning
                                 II.   Arbitrage
                                III.   Wash trades
                                IV.    Matched orders
                                 A.    I and II
                                 B.    I, III, and IV
                                 C.    III and IV
                                 D.    IV only

                             11. All of the following are prohibited practices under the USA EXCEPT
                                  I. borrowing money or securities from the account of a former banker with
                                     express written permission of the bank
                                 II. failing to identify a customer’s financial objectives
                                III. selling rights instead of exercising them
                                IV. supplying funds to a client’s account only when or if it declines below a
                                     previously agreed-upon level
                                 A. I and II
                                 B. I, II, and III
                                 C. II and IV
                                 D. III only




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 123                                                                                            7/15/2016 2:02:43 PM
     124        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                                    12. A customer is upset with her agent for not servicing her account properly
                                                        and sends him a complaint letter about his actions. Under the Uniform
                                                        Securities Act, the agent should
                                                         A.   call the customer, apologize, and attempt to correct the problem
                                                         B.   tell the customer he is willing to make rescission
                                                         C.   do nothing
                                                         D.   bring the customer complaint to his employer immediately

                                                    13. An agent hears a rumor concerning a security and uses the rumor to con-
                                                        vince a client to purchase the security. Under the USA, the agent may
                                                         A. recommend the security if it is an appropriate investment
                                                         B. recommend the investment if the rumor is based on material inside
                                                            information
                                                         C. recommend the security if the source of the rumor came from a reliable
                                                            source
                                                         D. not recommend the security

                                                    14. It is permitted under the USA for an individual licensed as an agent in the
                                                        state to tell a client that
                                                         A. a registered security may lawfully be sold in that state
                                                         B. an exempt security is not required to be registered because it is generally
                                                            regarded as being safer than a nonexempt security
                                                         C. her qualifications have been found satisfactory by the Administrator
                                                         D. a registered security has been approved for sale in the state by the
                                                            Administrator

                                                    15. Which of the following is(are) prohibited under the USA?
                                                           I. Recommending tax shelters to low-income retirees
                                                          II. Stating that a state Administrator has approved an offering on the basis
                                                              of the quality of information found in the prospectus
                                                         III. Soliciting orders for unregistered, nonexempt securities
                                                         IV. Employing any device to defraud
                                                          A. I only
                                                          B. I and II
                                                          C. I, II and III
                                                          D. I, II, III, and IV



             2. 12           JURISDICTION AND POWERS OF THE STATE
                             ADMINISTRATOR
                                      The jurisdiction and powers of the Administrator extend to activities related to secu-
                                 rities transactions originated in the state, directed to the state, or accepted in the state.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 124                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:02:44 PM
                                                                            Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)      125




                   2. 12. 1 SALE OR SELL AND OFFER OR OFFER TO SELL

                        2. 12. 1. 1 Sale or Sell
                                          The USA defines sale or sell as every contract of sale, contract to sell, and disposition
                                     of a security or interest in a security for value. This means that any transfer of a security in
                                     which money or some other valuable consideration is involved is covered by this defini-
                                     tion and subject to the act.


                        2. 12. 1. 2 Offer or Offer to Sell
                                         The USA defines offer or offer to sell as every attempt or offer to dispose of, or solici-
                                     tation of an offer to buy, a security or interest in a security for value. For test purposes, you
                                     should know that:
                                     ■■ any security given or delivered with, or as a bonus on account of, a purchase of securi-
                                         ties or anything else (a car, jewelry, and so forth) is considered to constitute part of the
                                         subject of the purchase and to have been offered and sold for value;
                                     ■■ a purported gift of assessable stock is considered to involve an offer and a sale (assess-
                                         able stock is stock issued below par for which the issuer or creditors have the right to
                                         assess shareholders for the balance of unpaid par); or
                                     ■■ a sale or offer of a warrant or right to purchase or subscribe to another security of the
                                         same or another issuer, as well as every sale or offer of a security which gives the holder
                                         a present or future right or privilege to convert into another security of the same or
                                         another issuer, is considered to include an offer of the other security.

                                         If a car dealer, as an essential part of a car sale, offers $1,000 in corporate bonds as an
                                     incentive, this would be considered a bonus under the act and, therefore, this now becomes
                                     a securities sale and falls under the jurisdiction of the state securities Administrator. As
                                     a result, to do this, and I know it is hard to believe, the car dealer would have to register
                                     with the state as a broker-dealer.



                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                           You must be able to distinguish between a sale and an offer to sell. The offer
                                                      is the attempt; a transaction has not taken place. In a sale, there has been an ac­
                                                      tual transaction involving money or another form of consideration for value. One
                                                      must be properly registered to both make a sale and make the offer.


                        2. 12. 1. 3 Assessable Stock
                                         When assessable stock is given as a gift, the Administrator has jurisdiction over the
                                     transaction because there is a potential future obligation in that either the issuer or, more
                                     likely, creditors can demand payment for the balance of the par value.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 125                                                                                                                    7/15/2016 2:02:44 PM
     126        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                        If an individual owned assessable stock and felt that the issuer was on the
                                                    verge of bankruptcy, that person could give the stock as a present. If the bank-
                                                    ruptcy occurred, the new owner would then be subject to the assessment.




                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                         Assessable stock no longer exists, but the exam may ask about it. Look for
                                                    this direct quote from the Uniform Securities Act: “A purported gift of assessable
                                                    stock is considered to involve an offer and sale.”


                   2. 12. 1. 4 Exclusions From the Definition of Sale/Sell and Offer/Offer to
                               Sell
                                    The terms sale or sell and offer or offer to sell do not include any:
                                 ■■ bona fide pledge or loan (pledging stock as collateral for a loan, such as in a margin
                                    account, is not a sale, nor is lending stock for someone to sell short. In both cases, you
                                    expect to get your stock back—you haven’t sold it);
                                 ■■ gift of nonassessable stock (this is the way all stocks are today);
                                 ■■ stock dividend, whether the corporation distributing the dividend is the issuer of the
                                    stock or not, if nothing of value is given by stockholders for the dividend (and this
                                    would include stock splits);
                                 ■■ class vote by stockholders, pursuant to the certificate of incorporation or the appli-
                                    cable corporation statute, or a merger, consolidation, reclassification of securities, or
                                    sale of corporate assets in consideration of the issuance of securities of another corpo-
                                    ration; or
                                 ■■ act incident to a judicially approved reorganization with which a security is issued in
                                    exchange for one or more outstanding securities, claims, or property interest, or partly
                                    in such exchange and partly for cash.



             2. 13           LEGAL JURISDICTION OF THE ADMINISTRATOR
                                     Under law, for any agent of a state (e.g., the Administrator) to have authority over an
                                 activity such as a sale or offer of securities, it must have legal jurisdiction to act. Jurisdiction
                                 under the USA specifically means the legal authority to regulate securities activities that
                                 take place in the state.
                                     The USA describes those activities considered to have taken place in the state as any
                                 offer to buy or sell a security, as well as any acceptance of the offer, if the offer:
                                 ■■ originated in the Administrator’s state;
                                 ■■ is directed to the Administrator’s state; or
                                 ■■ is accepted in the Administrator’s state.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 126                                                                                                               7/15/2016 2:02:44 PM
                                                                     Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)      127




                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                 Because securities transactions often involve several states, more than one
                                              Administrator may have jurisdiction over a security or a transaction.




                               *
                             CASE STUDY       Offer Originated in Administrator’s State

                                                    Situation: Mr. Thompson (a registered agent in Illinois and Indiana), on the
                                              recommendation of his best client (Mr. Bixby), phones Ms. Gordon, who is a
                                              friend of Mr. Bixby’s and a resident of Indiana. After having Ms. Gordon open
                                              an account with his broker-dealer, Mr. Thompson sells a security to Ms. Gordon,
                                              who then mails payment to Mr. Thompson’s office in Illinois.
                                                    Analysis: The Administrators of both Illinois and Indiana have jurisdiction—
                                              the Administrator of Illinois has jurisdiction because the call (offer) originated in
                                              Illinois, and the Administrator of Indiana has jurisdiction because the offer was
                                              accepted by Ms. Gordon in Indiana.




                               *
                             CASE STUDY       Offer Directed to Administrator’s State

                                                   Situation: The day after he completes his first transaction with Ms. Gordon,
                                              Mr. Thompson mails sales offering materials to her home address in Indiana. Ms.
                                              Gordon is not in a position to buy any more securities, so she discards the mate-
                                              rial without reading it.
                                                   Analysis: By sending sales materials to Ms. Gordon’s home address in
                                              Indiana, Mr. Thompson directed the offer to Indiana. Even though Ms. Gordon
                                              discarded the information, the Administrator in Indiana has jurisdiction because
                                              the sales offer was directed to Indiana. The Administrator of Illinois also has juris-
                                              diction because the offer originated in Illinois.




                               *
                             CASE STUDY       Offer Accepted in an Administrator’s State

                                                   Situation: Mr. Thompson sends additional offers to Ms. Gordon, who is now
                                              on a three-month summer vacation in Florida. The offers are sent directly to her
                                              vacation location in Florida. Upon receiving Mr. Thompson’s materials in Florida,
                                              she decides to purchase the securities. She pays for the securities by mailing a
                                              check to Mr. Thompson drawn on her local bank in Indiana.
                                                   Analysis: The offer is accepted by Ms. Gordon while she was in Florida;
                                              there­fore, the Administrator of Florida has jurisdiction. Additionally, the Adminis-
                                              trator in Illinois has jurisdiction because the offer originated in Illinois. However,
                                              the Administrator in Indiana does not have jurisdiction; a check written on an
                                              Indiana bank account and mailed from elsewhere does not create jurisdiction.
                                              This is another situation where the Administrators of two different states have
                                              jurisdiction.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 127                                                                                                             7/15/2016 2:02:44 PM
     128        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         The Administrator’s authority does not stop at the state line. The Administra-
                                                    tor of any state where the registrant is registered may demand an inspection dur-
                                                    ing reasonable business hours with whatever frequency the Administrator deems
                                                    necessary.




                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E                   To avoid unnecessary duplication of examinations, the Administrator may
                                                    cooperate with the securities administrators of other states, the SEC, and any
                                                    national securities exchange or national securities association registered under the
                                                    Securities Exchange Act of 1934.



             2. 13. 1 PUBLISHING AND BROADCAST EXCEPTIONS TO
                      JURISDICTION
                                     There are special rules regarding the Administrator’s jurisdiction over offers made
                                 through a TV or radio broadcast or through a bona fide newspaper.
                                     The USA specifies that an offer would not be made in an Administrator’s state and,
                                 therefore, the Administrator would not have jurisdiction if it were made in:
                                 ■■ a television or radio broadcast that originated outside of the state;
                                 ■■ a bona fide newspaper or periodical published outside of the state; or
                                 ■■ a newspaper or periodical published inside the state but with more than two-thirds
                                     (66%) of its circulation outside the state in the last year.



                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                          A bona fide newspaper is a newspaper of general interest and circulation,
                                                    such as The New York Times. Private investment advisory newsletters, usually
                                                    distributed by subscription, are not bona fide newspapers and therefore do not
                                                    fall under the publishing exception.




                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                        A radio or television program is considered to originate in the state where the
                                                    microphone or television camera is located.




                             *
                      CASE STUDY                    Publishing and Broadcast Exemptions

                                                        Situation: First Securities & Co., broker-dealers with offices in New York state
                                                    and Illinois, offers to sell shares in a new retail shoe chain store located in New
                                                    York. First Securities advertises the offering to residents of New York in the local
                                                    newspaper, the New York Gazette. First Securities also advertises through the
                                                    Gazette’s wholly owned radio station. The Gazette and its radio station are both




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 128                                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:02:44 PM
                                                                      Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)      129




                                              located in western New York near the Pennsylvania border. About 55% of the
                                              Gazette’s readers and listeners live in Pennsylvania.
                                                    Analysis: Although more than half the readers and listeners of the Gazette
                                              live in Pennsylvania, under the terms of the publishing and broadcasting exemp-
                                              tion of the USA, the offer is not made in Pennsylvania because the paper is
                                              not published in Pennsylvania, so the Administrator of New York state has sole
                                              jurisdiction over the offering. No dual or multiple jurisdiction applies in this case
                                              unless the offer is actually accepted in Pennsylvania. The fact that First Securi-
                                              ties is registered in Illinois in addition to New York is not relevant to this offering
                                              because no securities were sold there, nor were any offers or advertising directed
                                              to the state.




                             Q
                        QUICK QUIZ 2.L        1.   A state’s securities Administrator has jurisdiction over a securities offering if it
                                                   was
                                                   A.   directed to residents of that state
                                                   B.   originated in that state
                                                   C.   accepted in that state
                                                   D.   all of the above

                                              2.   An Administrator has jurisdiction over an offer to sell securities if it is made in
                                                   a newspaper published within the state with no more than
                                                   A.   ¹/³ of its circulation outside the state
                                                   B.   ¹/² of its circulation outside the state
                                                   C.   ²/³ of its circulation outside the state
                                                   D.   90% of its circulation outside the state

                                              3.   What is the difference between an offer and a sale of a security?
                                                   A. An offer can be made only by a customer and a sale can be made only
                                                      by a broker-dealer.
                                                   B. An offer is a binding proposal to sell and a sale is a nonbinding proposal
                                                      to sell.
                                                   C. An offer is the attempt to sell and a sale is a binding contract to transfer
                                                      a security for value
                                                   D. An offer must be approved by a designated supervisory person and a
                                                      sale needs no such approval.




                   2. 14     ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN BY THE ADMINISTRATOR
                                   The USA not only establishes the jurisdiction of the Administrator but also outlines
                               the powers that the Administrator has within his jurisdiction.
                                   The four broad powers the Administrator has to enforce and administer the act in its
                               state are to:
                               ■■ make, amend, or rescind rules and orders and require the use of specific forms;
                               ■■ conduct investigations and issue subpoenas;
                               ■■ issue cease and desist orders and seek injunctions; and
                               ■■ deny, suspend, cancel, or revoke registrations and licenses.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 129                                                                                                              7/15/2016 2:02:44 PM
     130        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                     Because the Administrator has powers to enforce the act for the benefit of the public,
                                 the Administrator and his employees have the obligation not to misuse the office for per-
                                 sonal gain. Administrators are, as a result, prohibited from using for their own benefit any
                                 information derived from their official duties that has not been made public.


             2. 14. 1 RULES, ORDERS, AND FORMS
                                      To enforce the USA, the Administrator has the authority to make, amend, or rescind
                                 rules, forms, and orders necessary to administer the act. The Administrator may also issue
                                 interpretive letters. The USA requires that all rules and forms be published. A rule or
                                 order of the Administrator has the same authority as a provision of the act itself, but these
                                 rules and orders are not part of the USA itself. The difference between a rule and an order
                                 is that a rule applies to everyone, whereas an order applies to a specific instance.




                             *
                         EXAMPLE                        The Administrator may decide to issue a rule requiring all agents to pay an
                                                    annual registration fee of $250. This rule applies to everyone. Or, the Administra-
                                                    tor may find that a specific agent has violated a provision of the law and orders a
                                                    30-day suspension. This order applies only to that particular agent.

                                      A person may challenge an order of the Administrator in court within 60 days of order
                                 issuance.
                                      Although the Administrator has the power to make and amend rules for compliance
                                 with his state’s blue-sky laws, he does not have the power to alter the law itself.
                                      The composition or content of state securities law is the responsibility of the state leg-
                                 islature and not that of administrative agencies. Rules for administration and compliance
                                 with the law are the responsibility of the securities Administrator.




                             *
                      CASE STUDY                    Rules and Orders of the Administrator

                                                         Situation: The Iowa state securities Administrator requires by rule that all
                                                    companies registering their securities in Iowa must supply financial statements in
                                                    a specific form and with content prescribed by the Administrator. However, the
                                                    Administrator does not publish the rule because the rule is too long and complex.
                                                         Analysis: The USA allows state Administrators to issue rules and orders in
                                                    carrying out their regulatory functions, and the Iowa Administrator acted properly
                                                    in designing the form and content for financial reports. However, it is required
                                                    by the USA that Administrators publish all rules and orders. The Administrator,
                                                    despite the latitude given him in administering the USA, cannot suspend any
                                                    provision of the USA itself. The Iowa Administrator acted within his authority in
                                                    designing the forms but acted without authority—that is, he violated the USA—
                                                    by suspending the requirement that all rules and orders be published.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 130                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:02:44 PM
                                                                        Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)      131




                   2. 14. 2 CONDUCT INVESTIGATIONS AND ISSUE SUBPOENAS
                                    The Administrator has broad discretionary authority to conduct investigations and
                                issue subpoenas. These investigations may be made in public or in private and may occur
                                within or outside of the Administrator’s state. Normally, these investigations are open
                                to the public, but when, in the opinion of the Administrator and with the consent of all
                                parties, it is felt that a private investigation is more appropriate, that investigation will be
                                conducted without public scrutiny.
                                    In conducting an investigation, the Administrator, or any officer designated by him,
                                has the power to:
                                ■■ require statements in writing, under oath, as to all matters relating to the issue under
                                    investigation;
                                ■■ publish and make public the facts and circumstances concerning the issue to be inves-
                                    tigated;
                                ■■ subpoena witnesses and compel their attendance and testimony; and
                                ■■ take evidence and require the production of books, papers, correspondence, and any
                                    other documents deemed relevant.



                             !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                      If the Administrator of State A wishes to investigate a BD registered in State
                                                 A, but whose principal office is located in State B, does he need the okay of the
                                                 State B Administrator? No! When can he go in? The Administrator can go in dur-
                                                 ing normal business hours and doesn’t need to make an appointment.


                        2. 14. 2. 1 Contumacy
                                    So, what happens if a person who is the subject of an investigation refuses to furnish
                                the required evidence or just ignores the subpoena? After all, the Administrator is not a
                                police officer—he doesn’t wear a badge and cannot arrest anyone. There is a legal term
                                that describes this type of disobedience. That term is contumacy and here is what the USA
                                says about that:

                                         In case of contumacy by, or refusal to obey a subpoena issued to, any person, the
                                    Administrator may apply to the appropriate court in his state and ask for help. Upon ap-
                                    plication by the Administrator, the court can issue an order to the person requiring him to
                                    appear before the Administrator, or the officer desig­nated by him, to produce documentary
                                    evidence if so ordered or to give evidence touching the matter under investigation or in ques-
                                    tion. Failure to obey the order of the court may be punished by the court as a contempt of
                                    court.

                                    Contempt of court can, of course, lead to jail time.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 131                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:02:44 PM
     132        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         In addition to having the power to conduct investigations, the Administra-
                                                    tor may enforce subpoenas issued by Administrators in other states on the same
                                                    basis as if the alleged offense took place in the Administrator’s state. However,
                                                    the Administrator may issue and apply to enforce subpoenas in his state at the re-
                                                    quest of a securities agency or administrator of another state only if the activities
                                                    constituting an alleged violation for which the information is sought would be a
                                                    violation of the USA if the activities had occurred in his state.



             2. 14. 3 ISSUE CEASE AND DESIST ORDERS
                                     Whenever it appears to the Administrator that any person has engaged or is about to
                                 engage in any act or practice constituting a violation of any provision of this act or any
                                 rule or order hereunder, she may in her discretion bring either or both of the following
                                 remedies:

                                      (a) issue a cease and desist order, with or without a prior hearing, against the person
                                          or persons engaged in the prohibited activities, directing them to cease and desist
                                          from further illegal activity; or

                                      (b) bring an action in the appropriate court to obtain enforcement of the order through
                                          the issuance of a temporary or permanent injunction. If necessary, the court may
                                          appoint a receiver or conservator for the defendant or the defendant’s assets.

                                      The Administrator is granted this power to prevent potential violations before they
                                 occur. It is sometimes said that the Administrator can act when she “smells the smoke,
                                 even without seeing the fire.” Sometimes a tipster or whistleblower will divulge informa-
                                 tion to the Administrator that might be relevant to a serious infraction. To prevent any
                                 further damage to investors, a cease and desist order can be entered.
                                      Although the Administrator has the power to issue cease and desist orders, she does
                                 not have the legal power to compel compliance with the order. To compel compliance
                                 in the face of a person’s resistance, the Administrator must apply to a court of competent
                                 jurisdiction for an injunction. Only the courts can compel compliance by issuing injunc-
                                 tions and imposing penalties for violation of them. You will need to know that enjoined is
                                 the legal term that is used to refer to a person who is the subject of an injunction.



                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         Cease and desist orders are not the same as stop orders. Cease and desist
                                                    orders are directed to persons, requiring them to cease activities. Stop orders are
                                                    directed to applications regarding registration of a security.




                             *
                      CASE STUDY                    Cease and Desist Orders

                                                         Situation: Mr. Thompson is registered to conduct business in the state of Illi-
                                                    nois and makes plans to sell a security within the next few days. The Administra-




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 132                                                                                                                  7/15/2016 2:02:44 PM
                                                                        Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)      133




                                                 tor considers this security ineligible for sale in the state. The Administrator orders
                                                 Mr. Thompson to stop his sales procedures immediately.
                                                      Analysis: The Administrator of Illinois issued a cease and desist order to
                                                 Mr. Thompson because there was insufficient time to conduct a public hear-
                                                 ing before the sale to determine whether the security was eligible for sale in the
                                                 state.

                                    Frequently, before a final determination of proceedings under the act, the Administrator
                                will act summarily to suspend a registration. However, no formal order may be issued with-
                                out the Administrator:
                                ■■ giving appropriate prior notice to the affected persons;
                                ■■ granting an opportunity for a hearing; and
                                ■■ providing findings of fact and conclusions of law.


                   2. 14. 4 DENY, SUSPEND, CANCEL, OR REVOKE
                            REGISTRATIONS
                                     The Administrator has the power to deny, suspend, cancel, or revoke the registration
                                of broker-dealers, investment advisers, and their representatives as well as the registration
                                of securities issues.


                        2. 14. 4. 1 Broker-dealers, Advisers, and Their Representatives
                                     To justify a denial, revocation, or suspension of the license of a securities professional,
                                the Administrator must find that the order is in the public interest and also find that the
                                applicant or registrant, or in the case of a broker-dealer or investment adviser, any partner,
                                officer, or director, or any person occupying a similar status or performing similar functions:
                                ■■ has filed an incomplete, false, or misleading registration application;
                                ■■ has willfully violated the USA;
                                ■■ has been disqualified from membership in any securities or commodities regulatory
                                     body due to a conviction of a securities-related misdemeanor as a result of action
                                     brought within the last 10 years;
                                ■■ has been convicted of any felony within the last 10 years;
                                ■■ has been enjoined by law from engaging in the securities business;
                                ■■ is subject to another Administrator’s denial, revocation, or suspension;
                                ■■ is engaged in dishonest or unethical securities practices;
                                ■■ is insolvent;
                                ■■ is the subject of an adjudication that the broker-dealer has willfully violated the Secu-
                                     rities Act of 1933, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Investment Advisers Act
                                     of 1940, the Investment Company Act of 1940, or the Commodities Exchange Act;
                                ■■ has, in the case of a broker-dealer or investment adviser, been found guilty on the
                                     charge of failure to supervise;
                                ■■ has failed to pay application filing fees; or
                                ■■ is not qualified on the basis of training, lack of experience, and knowledge of the secu-
                                     rities business.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 133                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:02:44 PM
     134        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT                        Because of a lack of uniformity in state criminal laws, it can happen that a
                                                    person is convicted of a misdemeanor in one state and then moves to a state
                                                    where that same crime is a felony. If the person were to then apply for registra-
                                                    tion, the Administrator must consider the crime under the statutes of the state
                                                    where it occurred, not his own. In other words, the Administrator may only con-
                                                    sider what is on the person’s record.




                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                        If a person is subject to a disqualification by any SRO, even the NASD
                                                    (before it became FINRA), for something that was not a violation of the Uniform
                                                    Securities Act, that would still be a cause for denial.




                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                        The public’s best interest is not reason enough for the denial, suspension, or
                                                    revocation of a registration. There must be a further reason, as described above.

                                     Other than when acting summarily, no order to deny, suspend, or revoke may be
                                 entered without:
                                 ■■ appropriate prior notice to the applicant or registrant (as well as the employer or
                                     prospective employer if the applicant or registrant is an agent or investment adviser
                                     representative);
                                 ■■ opportunity for hearing; and
                                 ■■ written findings of fact and conclusions of law.

                                     The Administrator may not suspend or revoke a regis­tration on the basis of facts that
                                 were known to the Administrator at the time the registration became effective (unless the
                                 proceedings are initiated within 90 days).

                                 2. 14. 4. 1. 1 Lack of Qualification
                                     An Administrator may not base a denial of a person’s registration solely on his lack of
                                 experience. However, the Administrator may consider that reg­istration as a broker-dealer
                                 does not necessarily qualify one for a license as an investment adviser and may restrict
                                 that applicant’s registration as a broker-dealer conditional upon its not functioning as an
                                 investment adviser.
                                     To better understand these two points, let’s look at the wording in the Act itself:

                                           1. The Administrator may not enter an order denying registration solely on the basis of
                                      lack of experience if the applicant or registrant is qualified by training or knowledge or both.

                                     Obviously, a new applicant for registration as an agent is not going to have any experi-
                                 ence selling securities. So, the Act says that this lack of experience by itself is not enough
                                 to deny the registration as long as the Administrator feels assured that the individual will
                                 receive adequate training and/or has the requisite knowledge. One could suppose that
                                 passing this exam demonstrates the necessary knowledge.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 134                                                                                                               7/15/2016 2:02:44 PM
                                                                           Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)      135




                                        2. The Administrator may consider that an investment adviser is not nec­essarily quali-
                                   fied solely on the basis of experience as a broker-dealer or agent. When he finds that an ap-
                                   plicant for initial or renewal registration as a broker-dealer is not qualified as an investment
                                   adviser, he may, by order, condition the applicant’s registration as a broker-dealer upon his
                                   not transacting business in this state as an investment adviser.

                                   In this case, the Act is dealing with a person who has experience, albeit not necessarily
                               in the giving of advice. Just because a person has been a broker-dealer, or an agent for a
                               broker-dealer, does not mean that the person is qualified to be an investment adviser. So,
                               the registration will be limited to acting only in their stated capacity as long as one does
                               not cross over the line and give investment advice.

                               2. 14. 4. 1. 2 Summary Powers
                                   One of the powers of the Administrator is known as acting summarily. This means
                               that he may order, without having to go through the hearing process, a postponement
                               or suspension of a registration pending final determination of any proceeding based
                               upon actions described above. Once the summary order is entered, the Administrator
                               will promptly notify the applicant or registrant, as well as the employer or prospective
                               employer if the applicant or registrant is an agent or investment adviser representative,
                               that it has been entered and of the reasons for it. If the applicant wishes a hearing, writ-
                               ten request must be made and, within fifteen days after the receipt of the written request,
                               the matter will be set down for hearing. If no hearing is requested and none is ordered by
                               the Administrator, the order will remain in effect until it is modified or vacated by the
                               Administrator.
                                   As stated previously (and repeated because it is likely to be on the exam), other than
                               when the Administrator has acted summarily as described above, no final order may be
                               issued without the Administrator:
                               ■■ giving appropriate prior notice to the affected persons;
                               ■■ granting an opportunity for a hearing; and
                               ■■ providing findings of fact and conclusions of law.




                             Q
                        QUICK QUIZ 2.M           1.   With regard to the powers of the Administrator, which of the following state-
                                                      ments are NOT true?
                                                        I. The Administrator must seek an injunction to issue a cease and desist
                                                           order.
                                                       II. The USA requires an Administrator to conduct a full hearing, public or
                                                           private, before issuing a cease and desist order.
                                                      III. The USA grants the Administrator the power to issue injunctions to force
                                                           compliance with the provisions of the act.
                                                      A.   I and II
                                                      B.   I and III
                                                      C.   II and III
                                                      D.   I, II and III




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 135                                                                                                                   7/15/2016 2:02:44 PM
     136        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                                    2.   Although the Administrator has great power, the USA does place some limi-
                                                         tations on the office. Which of the following statements regarding those
                                                         powers are TRUE?
                                                           I. In conducting an investigation, an Administrator can compel the testi-
                                                              mony of witnesses.
                                                          II. Investigations of serious violations must be open to the public.
                                                         III. An Administrator in Illinois may only enforce subpoenas from South
                                                              Carolina if the violation originally occurred in Illinois.
                                                         IV. An administrator may deny the registration of a securities professional
                                                              who has been convicted of any felony within the past 10 years.
                                                         A.   I, II and IV
                                                         B.   I, III and IV
                                                         C.   I and IV
                                                         D.   II and III

                                                    3.   To protect the public, the Administrator may
                                                           I. deny a registration if the registrant does not have sufficient experience
                                                              to function as an agent
                                                          II. consider that an applicant for registration as an investment adviser is
                                                              not necessarily qualified solely on the basis of experience as a broker-
                                                              dealer or agent and, therefore, when he finds that an applicant for
                                                              initial or renewal registration as a broker-dealer is not qualified as an
                                                              investment adviser, he may by order condition the applicant’s registra-
                                                              tion as a broker-dealer upon his not transacting business in this state as
                                                              an investment adviser
                                                         III. take into consideration that the registrant will work under the supervi-
                                                              sion of a registered investment adviser or broker-dealer in approving a
                                                              registration
                                                         IV. deny a registration, although denial is not in the public’s interest, if it is
                                                              prudent in view of a change in the state’s political composition
                                                          A. I and II
                                                          B. II and III
                                                          C. III and IV
                                                          D. I, II, III, and IV

                                                    4.   Under powers granted by the Uniform Securities Act, the Administrator may
                                                         take all of the following actions EXCEPT
                                                         A. issue a cease and desist order against a broker-dealer
                                                         B. issue an arrest warrant for an investment adviser representative
                                                         C. refer evidence concerning violations of this act to the attorney general
                                                            or the proper district attorney who may then institute the appropriate
                                                            criminal proceedings
                                                         D. file a civil complaint against an agent


                   2. 14. 4. 2 Securities Issues
                                      The Administrator has the power under the USA to deny, suspend, or revoke the reg-
                                 istration of a security by issuing a stop order; however, the Administrator can invoke these
                                 powers only if it is in the public’s interest and:
                                 ■■ the applicant files a false or incomplete statement;




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 136                                                                                                                    7/15/2016 2:02:44 PM
                                                                      Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)      137




                                ■■ the applicant is in violation of the USA;
                                ■■ the applicant is engaged in a method of business that is illegal;
                                ■■ the applicant has prepared a fraudulent registration;
                                ■■ the underwriter charges unreasonable fees;
                                ■■ the issue is subject to a court injunction; or
                                ■■ the registrant is subject to an administrative stop order of any other state.

                                     In addition, the Administrator may deny a registration if the applicant fails to pay the
                                filing fee. When the fee is paid, the denial order will be removed provided the applicant is
                                in compliance with all registration procedures.
                                     Unless the Administrator is acting summarily, no stop order may be entered to deny,
                                suspend, or revoke the registration of a security without:
                                ■■ appropriate prior notice to the applicant or registrant, the issuer, and the person on
                                     whose behalf the securities are to be or have been offered;
                                ■■ opportunity for hearing; and
                                ■■ written findings of fact and conclusions of law.



                              !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                      When the conditions that led to the issuance of the stop order have changed
                                                for the better, the legal term (remember, this is a law exam) used to describe the
                                                lifting of the stop order is vacated (e.g., “the order has been vacated”).



                   2. 14. 5 NONPUNITIVE TERMINATIONS OF REGISTRATION
                                    A registration can be terminated even if there has not been a violation of the USA. A
                                request for withdrawal and lack of qualification are both reasons for cancellation.


                        2. 14. 5. 1 Withdrawal
                                    A person may request on his own initiative a withdrawal of a registration. The with-
                                drawal is effective 30 days after the Administrator receives it, provided no revocation
                                or suspension proceedings are in process against the person making the request. In that
                                event, the Administrator may institute a revocation or suspension proceeding within one
                                year after a withdrawal becomes effective.


                        2. 14. 5. 2 Cancellation
                                    If an Administrator finds that an applicant or a registrant no longer exists or has
                                ceased to transact business, the Administrator may cancel the registration.



                              !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                      Once your registration has been withdrawn, the Administrator still retains
                                                juris­diction over you for a period of one year.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 137                                                                                                              7/15/2016 2:02:45 PM
     138        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT                        You may encounter this type of question regarding cancellation: “What
                                                    would the Administrator do if mailings to a registrant were returned with no
                                                    forwarding address?” The answer is, “Cancel the registration.”
                                                         The Administrator may also cancel a registration if a person is declared men-
                                                    tally incompetent.




                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         Be familiar with the distinctions between cancellation and denial, suspension,
                                                    or revocation. Cancellation does not result from violations or a failure to follow
                                                    the provisions of the act. Cancellation occurs as the result of death, dissolution, or
                                                    mental incompetency.




                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT                        Because an agent’s (or IAR’s) registration is dependent on being associated
                                                    with a broker-dealer (or IA), when the employer’s registration is suspended or
                                                    revoked, that of the registered individual is placed into suspense or some other
                                                    term with essentially the same effect. When the period of suspension of the firm
                                                    is over, registration of the individuals is reactivated. If the firm’s registration has
                                                    been revoked, then the individual will either have to find a new affiliation or the
                                                    license will be canceled. Individual agents or IARs who withdraw their registra-
                                                    tion must re-affiliate within two years or will be required to retake the exam to
                                                    re-qualify.




                             Q
                  QUICK QUIZ 2.N                    1.   Which of the following statements relating to termination of registration is
                                                         TRUE?
                                                         A. A registration, once in effect, may never be voluntarily withdrawn.
                                                         B. An Administrator may not cancel a registration of a securities profes-
                                                            sional who is declared mentally incompetent.
                                                         C. An Administrator may revoke the registration of a securities professional
                                                            who is declared mentally incompetent.
                                                         D. An Administrator may cancel the registration of a registrant no longer in
                                                            business.



             2. 15           PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS OF THE UNIFORM
                             SECURITIES ACT
                                     The USA provides both civil liabilities and criminal penalties for persons who violate
                                 the USA. In addition, the act provides for recovery by a client of financial loss that results
                                 from the fraudulent sale of a security or investment advice. In many cases, when an agent
                                 or IAR is found civilly liable for improper behavior, officers or other supervisory personnel
                                 of the firm may be liable as well if failure to supervise can be proven.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 138                                                                                                                    7/15/2016 2:02:45 PM
                                                                           Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)      139




                   2. 15. 1 CIVIL LIABILITIES
                                         Persons who sell securities or offer investment advice in violation of the USA are
                                     subject to civil liabilities (as well as possible criminal penalties).
                                         The purchaser of securities sold in violation of the act may sue the seller to recover
                                     financial loss.
                                         The purchaser may sue for recovery if:
                                     ■■ a sale was made of an unregistered nonexempt security in violation of the registration
                                         provisions of USA;
                                     ■■ the securities professional omits or makes an untrue statement of material fact during
                                         a sales presentation;
                                     ■■ the agent was named along with the broker-dealer for a civil infraction;
                                     ■■ the securities were sold by an agent who should have been but was not registered under
                                         the act; or
                                     ■■ the securities were sold in violation of a rule or order of the securities Administrator.

                                         Although most civil suits are brought by the purchaser, the administrator may bring
                                     a civil enforcement action in a court, particularly to prevent publication, circulation, or
                                     use of any materials required by the Administrator to be filed under the act that have not
                                     been filed.


                        2. 15. 1. 1 Statute of Limitations
                                         The time limit, or statute of limitations, for violations of the civil provisions of the
                                     USA is three years from the date of sale (or rendering of the investment advice) or two
                                     years after discovering the violation, whichever comes first.


                        2. 15. 1. 2 Rights of Recovery from Improper Sale of Securities
                                         If the purchaser of securities feels that the sale has been made in violation of the USA,
                                     that purchaser may file a complaint with the Administrator. If the Administrator inves-
                                     tigates the claim and finds it has merit, then a case will be opened against the offending
                                     broker-dealer and/or agent.
                                         If the client’s case is proven, at the direction of the Administrator, the client may
                                     recover:
                                     ■■ the original purchase price of the securities (“made whole”); plus
                                     ■■ interest at a rate determined by the Administrator (generally referred to as the state’s
                                         legal rate); plus
                                     ■■ all reasonable attorney’s fees and court costs; minus
                                     ■■ any income received while the securities were held.



                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                          The exam may refer to the interest paid to the client as being at the state’s
                                                     legal rate.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 139                                                                                                                   7/15/2016 2:02:45 PM
     140        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                   2. 15. 1. 3 Rights of Recovery from Improper Investment Advice
                                     A person who buys a security as the result of investment advice received in violation
                                 of the USA also has the right to file a complaint. In the case of securities purchased as a
                                 result of improper investment advice, if the client’s case is proven, at the direction of the
                                 Administrator, the advisory client may recover:
                                 ■■ cost of the advice; plus
                                 ■■ loss as a result of the advice; plus
                                 ■■ interest at a rate determined by the Administrator; plus
                                 ■■ any reasonable attorney’s fees minus
                                 ■■ the amount of any income received from the advice.

                                     When securities are sold improperly, the buyer can recover the original purchase price
                                 in addition to other losses. When improper investment advice is offered, the purchaser
                                 of the advice is entitled to recover the cost of the advice and losses incurred but is not
                                 entitled to recover the original purchase price from the adviser.



                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT                        The USA provides that every cause of action under this statute survives the
                                                    death of any person who might have been a plaintiff or defendant. Therefore,
                                                    any bond required must provide that suit may be brought for the specified statute
                                                    of limitations even though the person who is bonded dies before the expiration
                                                    of that period.


                   2. 15. 1. 4 Right of Rescission
                                      If the seller of securities discovers that a sale has been made in violation of the USA,
                                 the seller may offer to repurchase the securities from the buyer. In this case, the seller is
                                 offering the buyer the right of rescission. To satisfy the buyer’s right of rescission, the
                                 amount paid back to the buyer must include the original purchase price and interest, as
                                 determined by the Administrator.
                                      By offering to buy back the securities that were sold in violation of the act, the seller
                                 can avoid a lawsuit (and legal fees and court costs) through a letter of rescission. The
                                 buyer has 30 days after receiving the letter of rescission to respond. If the buyer does not
                                 accept or reject the rescission offer within 30 days, the buyer gives up any right to pursue
                                 a lawsuit at a later date.
                                      To further explain the reason for the 30 days to accept or reject, the purpose of that
                                 is to take care of the case where the buyer has already disposed of the security before the
                                 rescission offer is made to him. In such a case, the buyer is not denied the ability to bring
                                 suit if he is not satisfied with the seller’s computation of damages, but in order to do so he
                                 must reject the rescission offer within 30 days so that the seller may know where he stands.



                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT                        Unlike some federal laws, there is no provision for receiving treble damages.
                                                    That is, in addition to receiving back your investment, you receive payment equal
                                                    to three times what you lost. That is primarily found in the federal laws regarding
                                                    insider trading, but that is not relevant to the Uniform Securities Act.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 140                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:02:45 PM
                                                                            Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)      141




                                     2. 15. 1. 4. 1 Right of Rescission for Investment Advice

                                         Similar to the right of rescission described above for securities sales, an investment
                                     adviser who realizes that he has given advice that will subject him to civil action may
                                     avoid legal expenses by offering the client the same package as he would receive if he had
                                     sued. That is, refunding the cost of the advice, losses from the advice, and interest at the
                                     state’s predetermined rate, less any income received on recommended securities.


                        2. 15. 1. 5 Claims Against the Surety Bond
                                        Earlier in this session, we discussed the need for securities professionals to post a surety
                                     bond under certain conditions. The USA states:

                                              Every bond shall provide for suit thereon by any person who has a cause of action
                                         under this Act and, if the Administrator by rule or order requires, by any person who has
                                         a cause of action not arising under this act. Every bond shall provide that no suit may be
                                         maintained to enforce any liability on the bond unless brought within the time limitations
                                         of the Act.



                                  !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                          In other words, in order for a surety bond to meet the requirements of the
                                                      USA, it must provide that any customer who can prove a violation (and does so
                                                      within the statute of limitations) is entitled to collect against the bond.




                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                           Because this is an exam based on the law, it is sometimes necessary for us to
                                                      delve into the legalities more than we would like. The USA states: “Any person
                                                      who offers or sells a security in violation of the Act is liable to the person buy-
                                                      ing the security from him.” What this does is impose civil liability when the offer
                                                      violates one of the specified provisions even though the sale does not. The mak-
                                                      ing of a nonexempted offer before the effective date can create no civil rights on
                                                      behalf of the offeree (the potential buyer) unless the offer results in a sale. When
                                                      it does, however, this language means that the buyer may recover even though
                                                      no contract was made until after the effective date.



                   2. 15. 2 CRIMINAL PENALTIES
                                          Persons found guilty of a fraudulent securities transaction are subject to criminal pen-
                                     alties (as well as possible civil liabilities). Upon conviction, a person may be fined, impris-
                                     oned, or both. The maximum penalty is a fine of $5,000, a jail sentence of three years, or
                                     both. It is important to note that no person may be imprisoned for the violation of any rule
                                     or order if he proves that he had no knowledge of the rule or order. In other words, you
                                     have to know that you are willingly in violation in order to get jail time. It is also impor-
                                     tant to note that while the Administrator does not have the power to arrest anyone, he
                                     may apply to the appropriate authorities in his state for the issuance of an arrest warrant.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 141                                                                                                                    7/15/2016 2:02:45 PM
     142        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                 The appropriate state prosecutor, usually the State Attorney General, may decide whether
                                 to bring a criminal action under the USA, another statute, or, when applicable, common
                                 law. In certain states, the Administrator has full or limited criminal enforcement powers.
                                 To be convicted of fraud, the violation must be willful and the registrant must know that
                                 the activity is fraudulent.



                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         Fraud is the deliberate or willful concealment, misrepresentation, or omis-
                                                    sion of material information or the truth to deceive or manipulate another person
                                                    for unlawful or unfair gain. Under the USA, fraud is not limited to common-law
                                                    deceit.


                   2. 15. 2. 1 Statute of Limitations
                                     The statute of limitations for criminal offenses under the USA is five years from the
                                 date of the offense.



                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                        Remember the sequence 5-5-3 for the application of criminal penalties:
                                                    5-year statute of limitations, $5,000 maximum fine, and/or imprisonment of no
                                                    more than 3 years.
                                                           Under the civil provisions, the statute of limitations runs for 2 years from the
                                                    discovery of the offense or to 3 years after the act occurred, whichever occurs
                                                    first.




                             *
                      CASE STUDY                    Fraudulent Sale of Securities

                                                         Situation: Mr. Thompson, the registered sales agent, knowingly omitted the
                                                    fact that the shares of a company he sold to his client, Mr. Bixby, were down-
                                                    graded to speculative grade and that their bonds were placed on a credit watch
                                                    by one of the major credit rating agencies. A month after the sale, the shares
                                                    became worthless.
                                                         Analysis: Mr. Thompson sold these securities to Mr. Bixby in violation of the
                                                    USA because he deliberately or knowingly failed to mention material informa-
                                                    tion—information that was important for Mr. Bixby to know for him to make an
                                                    informed investment decision. Mr. Bixby has the right to recover the financial
                                                    losses that result from the sale.

                                     Under the USA, the actual seller of the securities or the advice is not the only person
                                 liable for the violation of the act. Every person who directly or indirectly controls the
                                 person who sold the securities or the advice, or is a material aid to the transaction, is also
                                 liable to the same extent as the person who conducted the transaction unless that supervi-
                                 sor could not have reasonably known about the improper activity.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 142                                                                                                                    7/15/2016 2:02:45 PM
                                                                    Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)      143




                   2. 15. 3 JUDICIAL REVIEW OF ORDERS (APPEAL)
                                   Any person affected by an order of the Administrator may obtain a review of the order
                               in an appropriate court by filing a written petition within 60 days. In general, filing an
                               appeal does not automatically act as a stay of the penalty. The order will go into effect as
                               issued unless the court rules otherwise.



                   2. 16     SALES OF SECURITIES AT FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
                                   The 1990s saw a proliferation of broker-dealer services being offered on the premises of
                               financial institutions, particularly banks. In response to the potential for confusion as well
                               as conflicts of interest, NASAA prepared Model Rules for sales of securities at financial
                               institutions which were adopted October 6, 1998. Here are the key points for you to know.
                                   No broker-dealer shall conduct broker-dealer services on the premises of a financial
                               institution where retail deposits (that means from ordinary customers like you and me)
                               are taken unless the broker-dealer complies initially and continuously with the following
                               requirements.


                   2. 16. 1 SETTING
                                    Wherever practical, broker-dealer services shall be conducted in a physical location
                               distinct from the area in which the financial institution’s retail deposits are taken. In those
                               situations where there is insufficient space to allow separate areas, the broker-dealer has a
                               heightened responsibility to distinguish its services from those of the financial institution.
                               The broker-dealer’s name shall be clearly displayed in the area in which the broker-dealer
                               conducts its services.


                   2. 16. 2 CUSTOMER DISCLOSURE AND WRITTEN
                            ACKNOWLEDGMENT
                                   At or prior to the time that a customer’s securities brokerage account is opened by a
                               broker-dealer on the premises of a financial institution where retail deposits are taken, the
                               broker-dealer must:
                               ■■ disclose, orally and in writing, that the securities products purchased or sold in a trans-
                                   action with the broker-dealer
                                   —— are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC),
                                   —— are not deposits or other obligations of the financial institution and are not guaran-
                                      teed by the financial institution, and
                                  —— are subject to investment risks, including possible loss of the principal invested; and
                               ■■ make reasonable efforts to obtain from each customer, during the account opening
                                  process, a written acknowledgment of the disclosures.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 143                                                                                                            7/15/2016 2:02:45 PM
     144        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




             2. 16. 3 COMMUNICATIONS WITH THE PUBLIC
                                      The following logo format disclosures may be used by a broker-dealer in advertise-
                                 ments and sales literature, including material published, or designed for use, in radio or
                                 television broadcasts, Automated Teller Machine (ATM) screens, billboards, signs, post-
                                 ers, and brochures, to comply with the requirements, provided that such disclosures are
                                 displayed in a conspicuous manner:
                                 ■■ Not FDIC Insured
                                 ■■ No Bank Guarantee
                                 ■■ May Lose Value

                                      As long as the omission of the disclosures would not cause the advertisement or sales
                                 literature to be misleading in light of the context in which the material is presented, such
                                 disclosures are not required with respect to messages contained in:
                                 ■■ radio broadcasts of 30 seconds or less;
                                 ■■ electronic signs, including billboard-type signs that are electronic, time, and tempera-
                                      ture signs and ticker tape signs, but excluding messages contained in such media as
                                      television, online computer services, or ATMs; and
                                 ■■ signs, such as banners and posters, when used only as location indicators.




                             Q
                  QUICK QUIZ 2.O                    1.   Which of the following statements relating to penalties under the USA is
                                                         TRUE?
                                                         A. Unknowing violation of the USA by an agent is cause for imprisonment
                                                            under the criminal liability provisions of the act.
                                                         B. A purchaser of a security where an agent committed a violation of the
                                                            USA may recover the original purchase price plus legal costs plus inter-
                                                            est, less any income already received.
                                                         C. A seller who notices that a sale was made in violation of the act may
                                                            offer a right of rescission to the purchaser; this must be accepted within
                                                            the sooner of two years after notice of the violation or three years after
                                                            the sale.
                                                         D. Any person aggrieved by an order of the Administrator may request an
                                                            appeal of the order within 15 days, which, in effect, functions as a stay
                                                            of the order during the appeal period.

                                                    2.   When making an offer of a new issue that is in registration to a prospective
                                                         client, an agent claims that his registration with the Administrator is proof of
                                                         his qualifications. Under the USA
                                                         A. claiming his registration is approved by the Administrator while making
                                                            an offer of a security undergoing registration subjects this agent to a civil
                                                            liability claim
                                                         B. claiming his registration is approved by the Administrator while making
                                                            an offer of a security does not subject this agent to a civil liability claim
                                                            until the registration becomes effective
                                                         C. claiming his registration is approved by the Administrator subjects this
                                                            agent only to civil liability if a sale results
                                                         D. regardless of whether a sale takes place, an agent making a misleading
                                                            statement of this type subjects himself to possible civil liability




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 144                                                                                                                  7/15/2016 2:02:45 PM
                                                    Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)      145




                             3.   If convicted of a willful violation of the Uniform Securities Act, an agent is
                                  subject to
                                  A.   imprisonment for 5 years
                                  B.   a fine of $5,000 and/or imprisonment for 3 years
                                  C.   a fine of $10,000
                                  D.   disbarment

                             4.   The Administrator has authority to
                                    I. issue a cease and desist order without a hearing
                                   II. issue a cease and desist order only after a hearing
                                  III. suspend an effective securities registration upon discovering an officer of
                                       the registrant has been convicted of a nonsecurities related crime
                                  IV. sentence violators of the USA to 3 years in prison
                                   A. I only
                                   B. I and IV
                                   C. II and III
                                   D. II and IV

                             5.   If a broker-dealer wishes to conduct operations on the premises of a financial
                                  institution, it is required to
                                    I. disclose both in writing and orally to customers that the investments
                                       being sold are not FDIC insured, may lose value, and are not obligations
                                       of the financial institution
                                   II. make a reasonable attempt to be in a location physically distinct from
                                       that where retail deposits are taken
                                  III. attempt to obtain written acknowledgement from customers that they
                                       have received and read the disclaimers
                                  IV. be under common control with the institution
                                   A. I and IV
                                   B. I, II, and III
                                   C. II and III
                                   D. I, II, III, and IV

                             6.   An agent of a broker-dealer who willfully violates the Uniform Securities Act
                                  may be subject to which of the following?
                                    I. Civil liabilities
                                   II. Criminal penalties
                                  III. Action taken by the Administrator to deny, suspend, or revoke the
                                       agent’s registration
                                   A. I only
                                   B. I and II
                                   C. II and III
                                   D. I, II, and III




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 145                                                                                            7/15/2016 2:02:45 PM
       146         Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




             Q U I C K               Q U I Z           A N S W E R S

        Quick Quiz 2.A                                                         5. C.   A broker-dealer is any person, partner, officer,
                                                                                       director, or securities firm engaged in the
           1. T.       A final order, such as a suspension or                          business of effecting securities transactions
                       revocation, may only be entered after the                       for the accounts of others (broker) or for its
                       opportunity for a hearing has been granted.                     own account (dealer).

           2. F.       Cease and desist orders are directed at               Quick Quiz 2.C
                       securities professionals. Stop orders are used
                       for securities offerings.                               1. D.   There is a special group of five exempt
                                                                                       issuers (U.S. and Canadian government
           3. T.       Governments and political subdivisions are                      and municipal issuers; foreign governments;
                       considered persons under the act. Remember                      banks; commercial paper; and investment
                       there are only three choices that are not a                     contracts related to employee benefit plans)
                       person—minors, persons since deceased, and                      where an individual representing that issuer
                       those judged mentally incompetent.                              is not an agent. This is true whether the
                                                                                       transaction is exempt or non-exempt. In
           4. F.       In order for an employee benefit plan to be
                                                                                       addition, when representing any exempt
                       included in the definition of institution, it
                                                                                       issuer (not just the five listed), in an
                       must have assets of not less than $1 million.
                                                                                       exempt transaction, the individual is not an
           5. A.       The USA specifies that a state’s securities                     agent. However, if the issue is not exempt
                       Administrator has the authority to enforce                      (commercial paper’s exemption is limited to
                       the act in that state. A transfer agent is                      9 months) and, as the question points out,
                       the person or corporation responsible                           the transaction is non-exempt, then the
                       for recording the names and holdings of                         individual must register as an agent of that
                       registered security owners.                                     issuer.

        Quick Quiz 2.B                                                         2. B.   All of the exclusions from the term agent
                                                                                       refer to an individual representing an issuer.
           1. T.       A person who effects transactions in                            As long as the transaction is exempt, the
                       securities for itself or for the account of                     individual is not deemed to be an agent.
                       others must register in the state as a broker-                  There is no case on the exam where an
                       dealer unless specifically excluded from the                    individual performing a sales function for
                       definition or exempt from registration.                         a broker-dealer is not an agent. Clerical
                                                                                       persons are not agents, nor are officers with
           2. T.       A firm with an out-of-state registration is                     no apparent sales function.
                       not considered a broker-dealer in that state if
                       transacting business with a customer who is             3. A.   Persons must be registered as agents when
                       passing through the state on vacation.                          they effect transactions on behalf of broker-
                                                                                       dealers whether or not the securities are
           3. T.       If a person is excluded from the definition,                    exempt.
                       that person need not register as a broker-
                       dealer; however, if they are not excluded (or           4. A.   Any individual taking orders on behalf of a
                       exempt), they must register.                                    broker-dealer must be registered whether or
                                                                                       not they receive a commission.
           4. F.       When a broker-dealer is registered with both
                       the SEC and several states (the usual case),
                       the financial and operational requirements to
                       be met are those of the SEC.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 146                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:02:45 PM
                                                                            Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)       147



                      5. B.   Employees of a bank engaging in retail                    4. A.      A broker-dealer, an agent, an investment
                              sales of securities issued by that bank are                          adviser representative, or a state registered
                              not agents regardless of how they are                                investment adviser must file a consent to
                              compensated.                                                         service of process with the Administrator
                                                                                                   upon filing a registration application. The
                      6. A.   A person who represents an employer in                               consent to service of process gives the
                              selling securities to employees must register as                     Administrator the right to process legal
                              an agent if the person receives a commission.                        complaints against the applicant. In some
                              If no commission is paid, registration is not                        states, a federal covered adviser may also be
                              necessary.                                                           required to furnish a consent to service of
                                                                                                   process.
                      7. B.   Persons who represent issuers in exempt
                              transactions, such as with underwriters, need         Quick Quiz 2.E
                              not register as agents.
                                                                                        1. C.      The format is not what counts; it is the
                      8. A.   A registered agent may not simultaneously                            content that matters.
                              represent two different unrelated broker-
                              dealers in the same transaction. Under                    2. C.      LinkedIn is viewed as a site used far more for
                              current regulations, only a few states allow                         business purposes than the others.
                              agents to have dual registrations with more
                              than one broker-dealer, unless those broker-          Quick Quiz 2.F
                              dealers are under common management. In
                              those cases, the agent may only represent                 1. C.      Commodity futures contracts and fixed
                              one of the broker-dealers in any single                              payment life insurance contracts are included
                              transaction. Agents of broker-dealers may                            in our list of 6 items that are not securities.
                              be simultaneously registered with real estate
                                                                                        2. C.      Management activity on the part of the
                              agencies, insurance companies, and with two
                                                                                                   owner is not part of the Howey, or four-part,
                              broker-dealers, provided the broker-dealers
                                                                                                   test for an instrument to be a security. The
                              are under common ownership or control or
                                                                                                   four parts are: (1) an investment of money
                              the arrangement has been authorized by the
                                                                                                   in (2) a common enterprise with (3) an
                              Administrator.
                                                                                                   expectation of profit (4) solely from the effort
                   Quick Quiz 2.D                                                                  of others.

                      1. F.   A consent to service of process is filed with             3. C.      Nonexempt means the security is not exempt
                              the initial application and permanently                              from the state’s registration requirements.
                              remains on file with the Administrator.                              However, if the nonexempt security is sold
                                                                                                   in an exempt transaction, registration is not
                      2. F.   In order to do business with their Canadian                          required.
                              customers who are temporarily in any
                              state(s), Canadian broker-dealers (and                    4. B.      A nonissuer transaction is one where the
                              their agents) must obtain a form of limited                          company that is the issuer of the security
                              registration.                                                        does not receive the proceeds from the
                                                                                                   transaction. A nonissuer transaction is
                      3. T.   Whether the Form BD for a broker-                                    a transaction between two investors and
                              dealer or the Form U-4 for an agent, the                             may or may not require the security to be
                              registrant must check the box(es) listing                            registered depending on whether the security
                              all jurisdictions in which the applicant is                          or the transaction (or both) are exempt.
                              registering (or already registered). This is also                    Whenever the proceeds go to the issuer, it is
                              required for investment advisers and their                           an issuer transaction.
                              representatives.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 147                                                                                                                        7/15/2016 2:02:45 PM
        148        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition



           5. D.       Whenever there is a material change to the              3. D. The USA exempts from registration a
                       information contained in the registration                     number of different issues. Included in that
                       application of a securities professional, the                 group are securities issued by depository
                       Administrator must be promptly notified.                      institutions including a savings and
                       Marital status is not included on the Form                    loan association that is authorized to do
                       U-4. Federal covered investment advisers are                  business in the state. Securities issued by a
                       not under the Administrator’s jurisdiction.                   governmental unit are always exempt. Any
                                                                                     security senior to a common stock that is a
        Quick Quiz 2.G                                                               federal covered security is itself considered
                                                                                     federal covered and, therefore, exempt from
           1. T.       Registration by coordination involves                         state registration.
                       coordinating a state registration with that of
                       a federal registration.                                 4. B.   An exempt security is exempt from the
                                                                                       registration requirements and the provisions
           2. T.       Any company may register by qualification.                      that require the filing of advertising and
                       However, in virtually all cases, qualification                  sales literature. Exempt securities are never
                       is only used when it is the only choice, such                   exempt from the antifraud provisions of the
                       as for intrastate offerings.                                    act.
           3. A.       Because this offering is being made in more           Quick Quiz 2.I
                       than one state, SEC registration is necessary.
                       The state registration method would be                  1. Y.   Mr. Thompson’s receipt of an unsolicited
                       coordination, which is the simultaneous                         order from Ms. Gordon is an exempt
                       registration of a security with both the SEC                    transaction.
                       and the states.
                                                                               2. Y.   The sale of an unregistered security in a
           4. B.       Although these are federal covered securities                   private, nonpublicly advertised transaction
                       and exempt from traditional registration, it                    to 10 or fewer offerees over the previous
                       could, at the discretion of the Administrator,                  12 months is an exempt transaction under
                       be required to engage in a notice filing.                       the limited offering exemption (a private
                                                                                       placement).
        Quick Quiz 2.H
                                                                               3. Y.   Any transaction by an executor,
           1. D.       Securities issued by registered investment                      administrator, sheriff, marshal, receiver,
                       companies and those sold on the NYSE                            trustee in bankruptcy, guardian, or
                       and Nasdaq Stock Market are federal                             conservator (but not a custodian for a minor
                       covered securities and, therefore, do not                       under UTMA) is considered an exempt
                       register with the states. Commercial paper                      transaction under the Uniform Securities
                       with a maximum maturity of 270 days, in                         Act.
                       denominations of no less than $50,000 and
                       a top three rating are exempt under the                 4. N.   The sale of stock of a previously privately
                       Uniform Securities Act.                                         owned company to the public in an initial
                                                                                       public offering is not an exempt transaction.
           2. D.       Variable annuities (whose performance
                       depends on the securities in a segregated               5. C.    Choice III is not an exempt transaction
                       fund) are nonexempt, which means they                           because the private placement exemption
                       are covered by the act and have to register.                    is limited to 10 offerees, not 10 purchasers.
                       Shares in public utilities, charitable                          The Administrator would be suspicious of
                       foundations, and banking institutions that                      anyone with a 100% closing ratio. All of
                       are members of the Federal Reserve System                       the others are included in our list of exempt
                       are included in our list of exempt securities.                  transactions.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 148                                                                                                             7/15/2016 2:02:45 PM
                                                                         Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)       149



                      6. D. The purchase of securities from a broker-                2. U.      It is unlawful to exercise discretion without
                            dealer by an employee of a bank is a                                prior written authorization. Because the
                            nonexempt transaction—it is a sale of a                             client was a nondiscretionary client, the
                            security by a broker-dealer to a member                             agent could not, on his own initiative, select
                            of the public and is therefore not exempt.                          which internet company to invest in.
                            Transactions between broker-dealers
                            and issuers as part of an underwriting                   3. L.      An agent must refuse orders from anyone
                            commitment; transactions between banks;                             other than the customer unless that person
                            and transactions between banks and                                  has prior written trading authority.
                            insurance companies are exempt because
                                                                                     4. U.      All written customer complaints must be
                            they are transactions between financial
                                                                                                forwarded to a designated supervisor of the
                            institutions. Exempt transactions are most
                                                                                                agent’s employing broker-dealer.
                            often identified by who the transaction is
                            with rather than what type of security is                5. L.      Agents may borrow from clients who are
                            involved.                                                           banks or financial institutions that are in
                                                                                                the business of lending money to public
                      7. C.   Both unsolicited transactions and
                                                                                                customers. Agents may not borrow money
                              transactions between issuers and underwriters
                                                                                                from customers who are not in the business of
                              are exempt transactions, not exempt
                                                                                                lending money.
                              securities. U.S. government securities
                              and securities of credit unions are exempt             6. U.      An agent may not guarantee the performance
                              securities, not exempt transactions.                              of a security.
                      8. D.   An agent who sells any security to an                  7. L.      It is lawful to charge extra transaction fees
                              insurance company is engaged in an exempt                         when justified as long as the customer is
                              transaction that is not bound by the                              informed before the transaction.
                              advertising and registration requirements of
                              the USA. Any sale to certain institutional             8. U.      It is unlawful to promise services that an
                              customers, such as banks, investment                              agent cannot reasonably expect to perform or
                              companies, and insurance companies, is                            that the agent is not qualified to perform.
                              an exempt transaction. Neither exempt
                              securities nor exempt transactions must                9. U.      It is unlawful to solicit unregistered
                              adhere to the registration and advertising                        nonexempt securities.
                              provisions of the USA. This is an exempt
                              transaction because of the nature of the               10. C.     A wash trade, the practice of attempting
                              purchaser, not the type of security being sold.                   to create the appearance of trading activity
                                                                                                by entering offsetting buy and sell orders,
                   Quick Quiz 2. J                                                              is a form of market manipulation. Matched
                                                                                                orders or matched purchases occur when
                      1. A.   A registration statement may be filed by the                      market participants agree to buy and sell
                              issuer, any other person on whose behalf the                      securities among themselves to create the
                              offering is to be made, or a registered broker-                   appearance of heightened market activity;
                              dealer.                                                           this is also a form of market manipulation.
                                                                                                Although churning is a prohibited practice,
                   Quick Quiz 2.K                                                               it does not involve manipulating the market,
                                                                                                and arbitrage is the perfectly legal practice
                      1. U.   It is unlawful to guarantee the performance                       of buying a security in one marketplace and
                              of any security. Even though repayment of                         simultaneously selling it in another to benefit
                              the principal of the government securities at                     from a price disparity.
                              maturity is assured, the same cannot be said
                              about the mutual fund.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 149                                                                                                                     7/15/2016 2:02:46 PM
        150        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition



         11. D.        It is permissible to sell rights, which are           Quick Quiz 2.M
                       securities. Borrowing money or securities
                       from other than a bank or broker-dealer in              1. D.   The Administrator need not seek an
                       the business of lending, failing to identify                    injunction to issue a cease and desist
                       a customer’s financial objectives, and                          order. The USA does not require that an
                       guaranteeing a customer’s account against                       Administrator conduct a public or private
                       losses are all prohibited practices.                            hearing before issuing a cease and desist
                                                                                       order. When time does not permit, the
         12. D.        Failure to bring customers’ written                             Administrator may issue a cease and desist
                       complaints to the attention of the agent’s                      before a hearing to prevent a pending
                       broker-dealer is prohibited.                                    violation. The USA does not grant the
                                                                                       Administrator the power to issue injunctions
         13. D.        The use of information, such as a rumor, that                   to force compliance with the act. The act
                       has no basis in fact is prohibited.                             permits the Administrator to issue cease and
                                                                                       desist orders, and, if they do not work, the
         14. A.        An agent may indicate that a security is
                                                                                       Administrator may seek an injunction from
                       registered or is exempt from registration. All
                                                                                       a court of competent jurisdiction. A cease
                       of the other statements are prohibited.
                                                                                       and desist order is an administrative order,
         15. D.        Recommending tax shelters to low-income                         whereas an injunction is a judicial order.
                       retirees is an example of an unsuitable
                                                                               2. C.   An Administrator may compel the
                       transaction. Stating that an Administrator
                                                                                       testimony of witnesses when conducting
                       has approved an offering on the basis of the
                                                                                       an investigation. Investigation of serious
                       quality of information in the prospectus,
                                                                                       violations need not be held in public.
                       soliciting orders for unregistered nonexempt
                                                                                       An Administrator in Illinois may enforce
                       securities, and employing a device to defraud
                                                                                       subpoenas from South Carolina whether
                       are all prohibited practices under the USA.
                                                                                       or not the violation occurred in Illinois.
        Quick Quiz 2.L                                                                 Conviction for any felony within the past 10
                                                                                       years is one of a number of reasons that the
           1. D.       The Administrator has jurisdiction over                         Administrator has for denying a license.
                       a security offering if it was directed to,
                       originated in, or was accepted in that state.          3. B.    The Administrator can deny, suspend, or
                                                                                       revoke a registration for many reasons, but
           2. C.       A state Administrator has jurisdiction                          they must be in the interest of the public.
                       over a securities offering made in a bona                       The Administrator may not deny the
                       fide newspaper published within the                             registration simply because it is prudent.
                       state, but only whose circulation is not more                   The Administrator may determine that
                       than X\c outside the state.                                     an applicant is not qualified to act as an
                                                                                       adviser and thus limit the registration to
           3. C.       An offer is made in an attempt to sell; a                       that of a broker-dealer; the Administrator
                       sale is the binding contract to sell a security                 can also take into consideration whether the
                       for value. An offer will not require prior                      registrant will work under the supervision
                       approval, but a designated supervisory                          of a registered investment adviser or broker-
                       individual must approve all sales on the date                   dealer when approving an application. Lack
                       the order is executed.                                          of experience is insufficient for denial.

                                                                               4. B.   An arrest warrant can only be issued by a
                                                                                       court of law.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 150                                                                                                             7/15/2016 2:02:46 PM
                                                                          Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)       151



                   Quick Quiz 2.N                                                     3. B.      Under the USA, the maximum penalty is a
                                                                                                 fine of $5,000 and/or 3 years in jail.
                      1. D.   An administrator may cancel the
                              registration of a registrant that is no longer          4. A.      The Administrator may issue a cease and
                              in existence. A person may request a                               desist order without a hearing, but does not
                              withdrawal of a registration. Withdrawals                          have the authority to convict violators of the
                              become effective after 30 days if there are                        1933 Securities Act in criminal prosecutions
                              no revocation or denial proceedings in                             or sentence violators of the USA. The
                              process. An Administrator does not revoke                          Administrator may suspend a security’s
                              the registration of a person who is declared                       effective registration upon subsequently
                              mentally incompetent but instead cancels                           discovering that an officer of the firm has
                              his registration; this is a nonpunitive                            been convicted of a securities-related crime,
                              administrative action.                                             not a nonsecurities-related one.

                   Quick Quiz 2.O                                                     5. B.      It is a NASAA Model Rule that broker-
                                                                                                 dealers operating on the premises of a
                      1. B.   To be subject to time in prison, a sales                           financial institution make certain disclosures.
                              agent must knowingly have violated the                             Every attempt should be made to locate
                              USA. A client who purchased a security                             separately from the banking operation and
                              in violation of the USA may recover the                            to obtain something in writing from the
                              original purchase price plus costs involved                        clients indicating that they have received
                              in filing a lawsuit. In addition, the purchaser                    the disclosures. It is not necessary that there
                              is entitled to interest at a rate stated by the                    be any relationship between the BD and the
                              Administrator, less any earnings already                           institution other than a business one.
                              received on the investment. The right of
                              rescission must be accepted within 30 days of           6. D.      Persons who are convicted of violating
                              receipt of the letter of rescission. Although                      securities laws may find themselves subject
                              any person aggrieved by an order of the                            to criminal penalties, civil liabilities,
                              Administrator may request an appeal of the                         and suspension, denial, or revocation of
                              order within 60 days, such appeal does not                         registration.
                              function as a stay order during the appeal
                              process. The person who is the subject of the
                              order must comply with the order during the
                              period unless a stay is granted by the court.

                      2. C.   For an agent to have civil liability, a sale
                              must take place. If the offer is made using
                              a statement like the one in this question
                              and a sale subsequently occurs, a client
                              suffering a loss would be able to sue. Even
                              though one may never claim approval by
                              the Administrator, there is no civil liability
                              unless the client has some kind of a claim.
                              However, even though the client cannot
                              bring a case, the Administrator could bring
                              a disciplinary action against the agent for
                              making this claim. On a law exam, you must
                              be careful to understand who has a claim and
                              when they do.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 151                                                                                                                      7/15/2016 2:02:46 PM
Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 152   7/15/2016 2:02:46 PM
                             3
                             Federal and State
                             Regulation of Investment
                             Advisers and Their
                             Representatives


                             I
                                 nvestment advisers and their representatives are defined by federal and
                                 state securities laws. A person that performs the functions of an invest-
                                 ment adviser, as the term is defined in the Investment Advisers Act of
                             1940 and more fully described in SEC Release IA-1092, is by definition an
                             investment adviser. Advisers and their representatives must conduct business
                             within the regulatory framework prescribed in federal and state securities
                             laws.
                                  The Series 66 exam will include approximately 17 questions on the ma-
                             terial presented in this session. ■




                                                                                                         153




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 153                                                                         7/15/2016 2:02:46 PM
            OBJECTIVES


                                 When you have completed this session, you should be able to:

                             ■■ define federal covered investment adviser and list exemptions and exclusions under the
                                Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and the Uniform Securities Act;

                             ■■ describe the investment adviser registration process, required post registration filings,
                                and business activities;

                             ■■ identify required elements of the investment advisory contract, client disclosure bro-
                                chure, wrap-fee programs, and solicitor’s brochure;

                             ■■ list the important ethical considerations and fiduciary responsibilities in providing invest-
                                ment advisory services;

                             ■■ explain the impact of SEC Release IA-1092 on the definition of investment advisers and
                                their activities; and

                             ■■ understand the implications of the NASAA Model Rule on Unethical Business Practices of
                                Investment Advisers, Investment Adviser Representatives, and Federal Covered Advisers.




      154




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 154                                                                                             7/15/2016 2:02:47 PM
                                                     Session 3   Federal and State Regulation of Investment Advisers and Their Representatives      155




                   3. 1       INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
                                     The Investment Advisers Act of 1940 is the federal legislation that defines the term
                                 investment adviser and requires persons that fall within the definition to register with the
                                 Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) or with the states in which they do busi-
                                 ness. As we have discussed earlier, under the National Securities Markets Improvement
                                 Act of 1996 (NSMIA), investment advisers who are registered with the SEC under the
                                 Investment Advisers Act of 1940, (federal covered advisers), do not register with state
                                 securities Administrators.
                                     The two primary purposes of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 are:
                                 ■■ the regulation of persons, both natural and legal, in the business of giving investment
                                     advice; and
                                 ■■ the establishment of standards of ethical business conduct for the industry.


                   3. 1. 1       DEFINITIONS
                                     To understand the application of this act, it is necessary to understand the definitions
                                 that follow. Although these definitions come from the Investment Advisers Act of 1940—
                                 federal legislation—the same terms are used in the Uniform Securities Act (USA), model
                                 legislation that most states use for drafting state securities laws, known as blue-sky laws, as
                                 discussed in Session 2.


                        3. 1. 1. 1   Broker
                                      A broker means any person engaged in the business of effecting transac­tions in securi-
                                 ties for the account of others.


                        3. 1. 1. 2   Dealer
                                     A dealer is any person regularly engaged in the business of buying and selling securities
                                 as principal for his own account, but does not include a bank, insurance company, or an
                                 investment company.


                        3. 1. 1. 3   Fiduciary
                                     A fiduciary is a person legally appointed and authorized to hold assets in trust for
                                 another person. The fiduciary manages the assets for the benefit of the other person
                                 rather than for his or her own profits and must exercise a standard of care imposed by law.
                                 Examples include an executor of an estate, a trustee, and, in this exam, an investment
                                 adviser.


                        3. 1. 1. 4   Person
                                     Although the definition of person (see Session 2) under the USA is somewhat broader
                                 than that found in federal law, for purposes of the exam, the slight differences are not
                                 relevant.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 155                                                                                                                   7/15/2016 2:02:47 PM
     156        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                   3. 1. 1. 5         Person Associated with an Investment Adviser
                                     Person associated with an investment adviser means any partner, officer, or direc-
                                 tor of the investment adviser (or any person performing similar functions) or any per-
                                 son directly or indirectly controlling or con­trolled by the investment adviser, including
                                 any employees of the invest­ment adviser, except that as far as registration requirements
                                 are concerned, persons associated with investment advisers whose functions are clerical
                                 or administerial are not included in the meaning of the term. Most students taking this
                                 course are included in the definition of an investment adviser representative.


                   3. 1. 1. 6         Supervised Person
                                     Supervised person means any partner, officer, director (or other person occupying a
                                 similar status or performing similar functions), or employee of an investment adviser, or
                                 other person who provides investment advice on behalf of the investment adviser and is
                                 subject to the supervision and control of the investment adviser.
                                     What is the difference between an associated person and a supervised person? The
                                 supervised person includes all employees, even those who perform clerical functions and
                                 are not required to become registered.




                             Q
                  QUICK QUIZ 3.A                    1.   Seven Seas Strategic Advisers (SSSA) maintains a place of business in 11
                                                         states and is registered with the SEC. As defined in the Investment Advis-
                                                         ers Act of 1940, the office from which control of the activities of SSSA takes
                                                         place is known as the
                                                         A.   Office of Supervisory Jurisdiction (OSJ)
                                                         B.   Principal office and place of business
                                                         C.   Home office
                                                         D.   Executive office

                                                    Quick Quiz answers can be found at the end of the session.


                   3. 1. 1. 7         Principal Office and Place of Business
                                     Both state and federal law define this as “the executive office of the investment adviser
                                 from which the officers, partners, or managers of the investment adviser direct, control,
                                 and coordinate the activities of the investment adviser.”



             3. 2 WHO ARE INVESTMENT ADVISERS?
                                     An investment adviser is defined under both the Investment Advisers Act of 1940
                                 and the USA as “any person who, for compensation, engages in the busi­ness of advising
                                 others as to the value of secu­rities or the advisability of investing in securities or, as part of
                                 a regular business, issues analy­ses or reports concerning securities.”




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 156                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:02:47 PM
                                                         Session 3   Federal and State Regulation of Investment Advisers and Their Representatives      157




                   3. 2. 1           SEC RELEASE IA-1092
                                         As a result of the proliferation of persons offering investment advice, Congress directed
                                     the SEC to define the activities that would subject a person to the 1940 Investment
                                     Advisers Act. The SEC did so in SEC Release IA‑1092.
                                         SEC Release IA-1092 interprets the definition of investment adviser under the
                                     Investment Advisers Act of 1940 to include financial planners, pension consultants, and
                                     others who offer investment advice as part of their financial practices.
                                         Release IA-1092, in short, identifies as an investment adviser anyone who:
                                     ■■ provides investment advice, reports, or analyses with respect to securities;
                                     ■■ is in the business of providing advice or analyses; and
                                     ■■ receives compensation, directly or indirectly, for these services.



                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                          If a person engages in these three activities, that person is an investment
                                                     adviser subject to the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. As an investment adviser,
                                                     this person must register with either the SEC or the states.


                        3. 2. 1. 1       Provide Investment Advice
                                         In Release IA-1092, the SEC maintains that a person who gives advice, whether in
                                     written or oral form, and issues reports, analyses, and recommendations about specific
                                     securities is an investment adviser if that person is in the business of doing so and receives
                                     compensation for the advice. This definition of an investment adviser includes financial
                                     planners, pension consultants, and sports and entertainment representatives.

                                     3. 2. 1. 1. 1    Financial Planners
                                         Financial planners who make recommendations regarding a person’s financial resources
                                     or perform analyses that concern securities are investment advisers if such services are
                                     performed as part of a business and for compensation. Under this interpretation, the SEC
                                     holds that there is no such thing as a comprehensive financial plan that does not involve
                                     securities.

                                     3. 2. 1. 1. 2    Pension Consultants
                                          Consultants who advise employee benefit plans on how to fund their plans with secu-
                                     rities are also considered investment advisers by the SEC. In addition, under Release
                                     IA-1092, the SEC considers pension consultants who advise employee benefit plans on
                                     the selection, performance, and retention of investment managers to be investment advis-
                                     ers. A bit later in this session you will learn the conditions under which pension consul-
                                     tants become eligible to register with the SEC rather than the states.

                                     3. 2. 1. 1. 3    Sports and Entertainment Representatives
                                         Persons who provide financially related services to entertainers and athletes that
                                     include advice related to investments, tax planning, budgeting, and money management




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 157                                                                                                                       7/15/2016 2:02:47 PM
     158        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                 are also investment advisers. As earnings for these celebrities continue to climb, more and
                                 more of them use personal managers to handle all of their finances, and those individuals
                                 or firms are generally going to be considered investment advisers.



                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         A sports agent who secures a favorable contract for a football player and
                                                    receives a commission of 10% of the player’s salary is not necessarily an invest-
                                                    ment adviser. However, if the sports agent advises the football player to invest his
                                                    money in specific securities, the agent is then in the business of offering invest-
                                                    ment advice and would then be subject to the Investment Advisers Act of 1940
                                                    or the Uniform Securities Act.


                   3. 2. 1. 2         In the Business of Providing Advice
                                    A person is in the business of providing advice and subject to regulation as an invest-
                                 ment adviser if he:
                                 ■■ gives advice on a regular basis such that it constitutes a business activity conducted
                                    with some regularity (although the frequency of the activity is a factor, it is not the
                                    only determinant in whether one is in the business of giving advice, and providing
                                    advice does not have to be the person’s principal activity); and
                                 ■■ advertises investment advisory services and presents himself to the public as an invest-
                                    ment adviser or as one who provides investment advice.



                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                       A person is in the business of giving investment advice if he receives separate
                                                    compensation that represents a charge for giving the advice.

                                     A person is in the business if he provides investment advice or issues reports on any-
                                 thing other than rare, isolated, and nonperiodic instances. In this context, a person is an
                                 investment adviser if he recommends that a client allocate funds to specific assets, such as
                                 high-yield bonds, technology stocks, or mutual funds.
                                     A person whose business is to offer only nonspecific investment advice, through pub-
                                 lication of a general newsletter, for instance, is not covered by the act. That exclusion will
                                 be covered shortly.


                   3. 2. 1. 3         Compensation
                                     A person who receives any economic benefit as a result of providing investment
                                 advice is an investment adviser. Compensation includes advisory fees, commissions, or
                                 other types of fees relating to the service rendered. A separate fee for the advice need not
                                 be charged; the fee can be paid by a third party on behalf of the beneficiary of the advice.
                                 No matter what the source, all compensation must always be disclosed to the client.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 158                                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:02:48 PM
                                                        Session 3   Federal and State Regulation of Investment Advisers and Their Representatives      159




                               *
                              EXAMPLE                     Fees that an investment adviser receives from a corporation for advice given
                                                     to the corporation’s employees or retirees are considered compensation. A fi-
                                                     nancial planner who designs a comprehensive financial plan for the corporation’s
                                                     employees without charging a fee but receives commissions on insurance policies
                                                     sold as part of the plan is acting as an investment adviser representative. Even
                                                     though that compensation is indirect, it meets the release’s definition of compen-
                                                     sation for investment advice.



                   3. 2. 2           EXCLUSIONS FROM DEFINITION OF INVESTMENT
                                     ADVISER UNDER FEDERAL LAW
                                        Although the definition of an investment adviser is broad, certain exclu­sions apply.
                                     There are six primary exclusions from the definition of an investment adviser.
                                     ■■ Any bank as defined in the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, is excluded.
                                     ■■ Any lawyer, accountant, teacher, or engineer whose advice is solely incidental to the
                                        practice of his profession is excluded. This exclusion is not available to any of these
                                        who have established a separate advisory business. Also, the exclusion would not be
                                        available to any of these who holds himself out as offering investment advice.
                                     ■■ Any broker-dealer whose performance of such services is solely incidental to the con-
                                        duct of his business as a broker or dealer and who receives no special compensation
                                        (such as when offering wrap fee programs) is excluded. The exclusion also applies to
                                        registered representatives of broker-dealers.



                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                          Special compensation for investment advice is compensation to the broker-
                                                     dealer or salesperson in excess of that which he or she would be paid for provid-
                                                     ing a brokerage or dealer service alone. Consequently, special compensation
                                                     exists where there is a clearly definable charge for investment advice.

                                     ■■ The definition of investment adviser encompasses publishers as well as authors. How-
                                        ever, the act excludes from the definition of investment adviser a “publisher of any
                                        bona fide newspaper, news magazine, or business or financial publication of general
                                        and regular circulation.”

                                         To qualify for this exclusion, the publication must be (1) of a general and impersonal
                                     nature, in that the advice provided is not adapted to any specific portfolio or any client’s
                                     particular needs; (2) bona fide, or genuine, in that it contains disinterested commentary
                                     and analysis as opposed to promotional material; and (3) of general and regular circula-
                                     tion, in that it is not timed to specific market activity or events affecting, or having the
                                     ability to affect the securities industry.
                                         For example, newspapers of general circulation would be eligible for the exclusion.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 159                                                                                                                      7/15/2016 2:02:48 PM
     160        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT                        An investment newsletter is being published for a subscription fee. Rather
                                                    than being published on a regular basis (weekly, monthly, quarterly, and so forth),
                                                    issues are released in response to market events. How does federal law view this
                                                    publisher? In this case, registration would be required as you will see in the fol-
                                                    lowing Supreme Court case.
                                                         In 1985, a cause célèbre, Lowe v. SEC, made it to the U.S. Supreme Court,
                                                    which ruled that registration of publishers of investment newsletters as financial
                                                    advisers was not required provided that the activities of a person or company
                                                    were limited to the issuance of general advice; that is to say, the advice was given
                                                    without regard to the particular circumstances of the investor, and the publica-
                                                    tion was published with some sort of regular schedule rather than being timed to
                                                    specific market events.

                                 ■■ Any person whose advice, analyses, or reports are related only to securities that are
                                    direct obligations of, or obligations guaranteed by, the United States, or by certain
                                    U.S. government-sponsored corporations designated by the Secretary of the Treasury
                                    (e.g., FNMA, GNMA) is excluded.
                                 ■■ Any nationally recognized statistical rating organization (e.g., Standard & Poor’s or
                                    Moody’s), unless such organization engages in issuing recommendations as to purchas-
                                    ing, selling, or holding securities or in managing assets, consisting in whole or in part
                                    of securities, on behalf of others is excluded.


             3. 2. 3             EXCLUSIONS FROM THE DEFINITION OF
                                 INVESTMENT ADVISER UNDER STATE LAW
                                    Below are the exclusions from the definition of investment adviser under state law.
                                 ■■ Banks, savings institutions, and trust companies are excluded.
                                 ■■ Any lawyer, accountant, teacher or engineer whose advice is solely incidental to the
                                    practice of his profession is excluded. This exclusion is not available to any of these
                                    who have established a separate advisory business. Also, the exclusion would not be
                                    available to any of these who holds himself out as offering investment advice.
                                 ■■ Any broker-dealer or its agents whose performance of such services is solely incidental
                                    to the conduct of his business as a broker-dealer and who receives no special compen-
                                    sation (wrap fees) is excluded.
                                 ■■ The definition of investment adviser encompasses publishers as well as authors. How-
                                    ever, the act excludes from the definition of investment adviser a publisher of any
                                    bona fide newspaper, news column, newsletter, news magazine, or business or financial
                                    publication or service, whether communicated in hard copy form, or by electronic
                                    means, or otherwise, that does not consist of the rendering of advice on the basis of
                                    the specific investment situation of each client.
                                 ■■ Investment adviser representatives are excluded.
                                 ■■ Any person who is a federal covered adviser is excluded.
                                 ■■ Any person excluded by the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 is also excluded.
                                 ■■ Any other person the Administrator specifies is excluded.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 160                                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:02:48 PM
                                                          Session 3   Federal and State Regulation of Investment Advisers and Their Representatives      161




                                         As you can see, the first four exclusions are virtually identical under both federal and
                                     state law. The only real difference is that under the USA, publishers will only be consid-
                                     ered investment advisers if their advice is specific to each and every subscriber.
                                         Then we have some important differences. There is no stated exclusion under the
                                     USA for those giving advice solely on U.S. government securities, but, they are excluded
                                     because they are federal covered advisers. The state law specifically excludes investment
                                     adviser representatives and, of course, federal covered advisers.



                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                          An individual may act as both an investment adviser and an investment
                                                     adviser representative. This is typically the case when the business is organized
                                                     as a sole proprietorship. However, an individual who acts solely as an investment
                                                     adviser representative is excluded from the definition of investment adviser.




                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                         For purposes of the exclusion, under both state and federal law, the term
                                                     “bank” does not include a savings and loan association or a foreign bank.




                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                          For purposes of incidental, look at this example. The Maryland Securities
                                                     Act sets that, “[a] lawyer, certified public accountant, engineer, or teacher whose
                                                     performance of investment advisory services is solely incidental to the practice of
                                                     the profession will be excluded from the definition of investment adviser. How-
                                                     ever, the performance of such services is not solely incidental unless the invest-
                                                     ment advisory services rendered are connected with and reasonably related to the
                                                     other professional services rendered; the fee charged for the investment advisory
                                                     services is based on the same factors as those used to determine the fee for other
                                                     professional services; and the lawyer, certified public accountant, engineer, or
                                                     teacher does not hold out as an investment adviser.”




                                Q
                        QUICK QUIZ 3.B               1.   The Investment Advisers Act of 1940 excludes certain persons from the def­
                                                          inition of an investment adviser if their performance of advisory services is
                                                          solely incidental to their professions. This exclusion would apply to all of the
                                                          following EXCEPT
                                                          A.    an accountant
                                                          B.    an economist
                                                          C.    an electrical engineer
                                                          D.    a college professor teaching a course on economics




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 161                                                                                                                        7/15/2016 2:02:48 PM
     162        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                                    2.    Which of the following would be excluded from the definition of invest­ment
                                                          adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940?
                                                           I. A bank offering advice through its trust department
                                                          II. A geologist giving advice on the potential prospects of an oil and gas
                                                              limited partnership program
                                                         III. A person whose only clients are individuals and whose only advice deals
                                                              with securities which are direct obligations of the U.S. government
                                                          A.   I and II
                                                          B.   I and III
                                                          C.   II and III
                                                          D.   I, II and III

                                                    3.    Which of the following would meet the definition of investment adviser
                                                          under the Uniform Securities Act?
                                                            I. A broker-dealer making a separate charge for investment advice
                                                           II. The publisher of a weekly magazine, sold on newsstands, that contains
                                                               at least 5 stock recommendations per issue
                                                          III. A civil damages attorney who advertises that she is available to assist
                                                               clients in suggesting appropriate investments for their successful claims
                                                         IV. A finance teacher at a local community college who offers weekend
                                                               seminars on comprehensive financial planning at a very reasonable price
                                                           A. I only
                                                           B. I, II, and III
                                                           C. I, III, and IV
                                                           D. I, II, III, and IV

                                                    4.    Registration as an investment adviser is required for any firm in the business
                                                          of giving advice on the purchase of
                                                          A.   apartments undergoing a conversion to condominiums
                                                          B.   convertible bonds
                                                          C.   gold coins
                                                          D.   rare convertible automobiles



             3. 3            REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS UNDER THE
                             INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
                                     The Investment Advisers Act of 1940 makes it unlawful for a nonregis­tered invest-
                                 ment adviser to use the mail or any instrumentality of inter­state commerce in connection
                                 with his business. Unless an exemption is available, registration with the SEC or with a
                                 state is required.



                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                       In the following section, exemption from registration refers to persons who
                                                    meet the definition of investment advisers but who do not have to register.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 162                                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:02:48 PM
                                                     Session 3   Federal and State Regulation of Investment Advisers and Their Representatives      163




                   3. 3. 1       EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION
                                 REQUIREMENTS UNDER FEDERAL LAW
                                     The Investment Advisers Act of 1940 exempts the following classes of investment
                                 advisers from the registration requirements.


                        3. 3. 1. 1   Intrastate Advisers
                                     Advisers whose clients, other than an investment adviser who acts as an investment
                                 adviser to any private fund (defined below), are residents of the state in which the adviser
                                 has its principal office and place of business and who do not give advice dealing with
                                 securities listed on any national exchange are exempt. For example, an adviser would be
                                 exempted under this provision if all of its clients were Georgia residents, its only places of
                                 business were in Georgia, and it did not give advice on securities listed on any national
                                 exchange.


                        3. 3. 1. 2   Advisers to Insurance Companies
                                     Advisers whose only clients are insurance companies are exempt.


                        3. 3. 1. 3   Private Fund Advisers
                                      Title IV of the Dodd-Frank Act, known as the Private Fund Investment Advisers
                                 Registration Act of 2010, contains a comprehensive overhaul of the registration process
                                 for investment advisers. The bill provided for the following new exemptions from registra-
                                 tion under the Advisers Act:
                                 ■■ An exemption for advisers solely to private funds with less than $150 million in assets
                                      under management in the United States, without regard to the number or type of pri-
                                      vate funds (the private fund adviser exemption)
                                 ■■ An exemption for certain non-U.S. advisers with no place of business in the United
                                      States and minimal assets under management (less than $25 million) attributable to
                                      U.S. clients and investors (the foreign private adviser exemption)
                                 ■■ An exemption for advisers solely to venture capital funds (the venture capital fund
                                      exemption)

                                 3. 3. 1. 3. 1    Definition of a Private Fund
                                     Although it is highly unlikely you will be tested on the technical definition, Section
                                 402 of the Dodd-Frank Act defines a private fund as “an issuer that would be an invest-
                                 ment company, as defined in section 3 of the Investment Company Act of 1940, but for
                                 section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of that Act.”
                                     In more straightforward terms, a 3(c)(1) issuer is one whose outstanding securities are
                                 beneficially owned by not more than 100 persons and which is not making and does not
                                 presently propose to make a public offering of its securities. With no more than 100 share-
                                 holders and no public offering, the term private fund seems quite logical.
                                     A 3(c)(7) issuer is one whose outstanding securities are owned exclusively by persons
                                 who, at the time of acquisition of such securities, are qualified purchasers (at least $5 mil-




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 163                                                                                                                   7/15/2016 2:02:48 PM
     164        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                 lion in investments for individuals and generally $25 million in investments for business
                                 entities), and which is not making and does not at that time propose to make a public
                                 offering of such securities. In this case, the lack of a public offering is logically private, and
                                 the fact that the invested wealth requirement limits the potential universe of investors is
                                 a factor as well.
                                       The point is, regardless of how it’s defined, if one is an adviser solely to private funds,
                                 it is possible to qualify for an exemption from registration with the SEC.
                                       Well, what about NASAA? As we will discuss shortly, their model rule closely paral-
                                 lels the federal exemption with two differences.



                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT                       Based on 3(c)(1), an investment adviser with discretion over more than 100
                                                    accounts using pooled client funds might be considered to be running an invest-
                                                    ment company and that could require registration under both the Investment
                                                    Company Act of 1940 and the Advisers Act.


                                 3. 3. 1. 3. 2 Assets Under Management Threshold for Registration of Invest-
                                 ment Advisers to Private Funds
                                      Even though those qualifying for the private fund exemption are exempt from the
                                 registration requirements under the Advisers Act, the Dodd-Frank Act directs the SEC
                                 to require those advisers to maintain records and provide to the SEC any reports that the
                                 SEC determines are “necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection
                                 of investors”. In order to rely upon this exemption, U.S. investment advisers (i.e., invest-
                                 ment advisers with their principal office and place of business in the United States) must
                                 include the value of assets for each private fund that they manage, regardless of where
                                 those private funds are organized.
                                      Under Dodd-Frank, investment advisers must determine the amount of private fund
                                 assets on a quarterly basis, based upon the fair value of such assets. Investment advisers
                                 will have one calendar quarter after exceeding the $150 million threshold to register with
                                 the SEC.

                                 3. 3. 1. 3. 3       Exemption for Foreign Private Advisers
                                     A foreign private adviser is defined in the Dodd-Frank Act as any investment adviser
                                 that:
                                 ■■ has no place of business in the United States;
                                 ■■ has, in total, fewer than 15 clients and investors in the United States in private funds
                                     advised by the adviser;
                                 ■■ has aggregate assets under management attributable to clients in the United States
                                     and investors in the United States in private funds advised by the adviser of less than
                                     $25 million; and
                                 ■■ does not hold itself out to the public in the United States as an investment adviser or
                                     act as an investment adviser to an investment company registered under the Invest-
                                     ment Company Act of 1940.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 164                                                                                                            7/15/2016 2:02:48 PM
                                                    Session 3   Federal and State Regulation of Investment Advisers and Their Representatives      165




                               3. 3. 1. 3. 4 Exemption for Investment Advisers to Venture Capital Funds
                                  The rules define a venture capital fund as a private fund that:
                               ■■ has limited leverage;
                               ■■ does not, except in certain limited circumstances, offer its investors redemption rights
                                  or other similar liquidity rights;
                               ■■ represents itself as a venture capital fund to investors; and
                               ■■ is not registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940.

                                   Please note that these exemptions are granted on the basis of who you advise, not on
                               what types of securities are the subject of your advice. Note also that exclusion means
                               exclusion from a definition, whereas exemption means not subject to registration. All of
                               the cases mentioned here involve investment advisers; it’s just that they qualify for an
                               exemption from registration under federal law.

                               3. 3. 1. 3. 5 Exempt Reporting Advisers (ERAs)
                                   As described above, there is an exemption from registration for certain private funds
                               and venture capital funds. However, even though exempt from registration, if designated
                               as exempt reporting advisers (ERAs), they are required to complete and electronically file
                               reports using the Investment Adviser Registration Depository (IARD) system on certain
                               amended items set forth in Form ADV, which will be made publicly available on the SEC’s
                               website.




                             Q
                        QUICK QUIZ 3.C         1.   Which of the following investment advisers are exempt from registration
                                                    under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940?
                                                      I. An adviser whose only clients are insurance companies
                                                     II. An adviser who maintains offices in only one state, advises only residents
                                                         of that state (none of whom is a private fund), and gives advice relating
                                                         to only tax-exempt municipal bonds
                                                    III. An adviser whose only clients are banks
                                                    A.    I and II
                                                    B.    I and III
                                                    C.    II and III
                                                    D.    I, II and III



                   3. 3. 2     FEDERAL COVERED ADVISERS
                                    The National Securities Markets Improvement Act of 1996 (NSMIA) made major
                               changes in the way investment advisers register. The NSMIA divided registration respon-
                               sibilities between the SEC and the states’ securities departments. Basically, the largest
                               firms are required to register with the SEC, and the smaller ones, unless qualifying for an
                               exception, are required to register with the states.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 165                                                                                                                  7/15/2016 2:02:48 PM
     166        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                     Who are federal covered investment advisers? In most cases, they are investment
                                 advisers registered with the SEC. The most tested examples are:
                                 ■■ those required to be registered or registered as an investment adviser with the SEC
                                     because they meet the minimum threshold of assets under management (currently
                                     $110 million);
                                 ■■ those under contract to manage an investment company registered under the Invest-
                                     ment Company Act of 1940, regardless of the amount of assets under management; or
                                 ■■ those not registered with the SEC because they are excluded from the definition of an
                                     investment adviser by the Investment Advisers Act of 1940.



                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         Because so much of this exam deals with interpreting the laws, it is some-
                                                    times necessary to review some legal concepts with you. For example, if a person
                                                    is excluded from the definition of investment adviser under the Investment Advis-
                                                    ers Act of 1940, the states, under the NSMIA, cannot define such person as an
                                                    investment adviser because federal law excluded that person from the definition.
                                                    In other words, if the separate states could define those persons who were ex-
                                                    cluded from the federal definition as investment advisers, the federal law would
                                                    have no meaning.


                   3. 3. 2. 1         Dodd-Frank and Assets Under Management
                                     As stated previously, the NSMIA eliminated state registration requirements for federal
                                 covered advisers, largely based upon assets under management. Dodd-Frank has created
                                 three thresholds: one for the “large” adviser, one for the ”mid-size” adviser, and, logically,
                                 one for the “small” adviser. Let’s examine each of these; their requirements and their
                                 exceptions, if any.

                                 3. 3. 2. 1. 1 Large Investment Advisers
                                     “Large advisers,” those advisers with at least $100 million or more in assets under man-
                                 agement, are eligible for SEC registration; once AUM reach $110 million, registration
                                 with the SEC is mandatory. Unless covered by one of the exemptions mentioned previ-
                                 ously, all large IAs must register with the SEC. State registration is not required because
                                 the Advisers Act preempts state registration.

                                 3. 3. 2. 1. 2 Small Investment Advisers
                                      This category includes advisers with assets under management of less than $25 mil-
                                 lion. Unless the investment adviser is an adviser to an investment company registered
                                 under the Investment Company Act of 1940, registration with the SEC is prohibited and,
                                 unless exempted under state rules, registration with the state is required. In addition, if the
                                 adviser would be required to register in 15 or more states, registration with the SEC would
                                 be permitted instead. The only other specific exception is that if the IA has its principal
                                 office in a state that does not call for registration of IAs (only Wyoming at the date of this
                                 printing), then registration with the SEC would be permitted. That is such a rare excep-
                                 tion that, unless specifically mentioned in the test question, it is suggested that you don’t
                                 consider it as a possibility.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 166                                                                                                              7/15/2016 2:02:48 PM
                                                        Session 3   Federal and State Regulation of Investment Advisers and Their Representatives      167




                                     3. 3. 2. 1. 3    Mid-size Advisers
                                          This is a new category added by Dodd-Frank. It includes those with AUM of at least
                                     $25 million but not $100 million. Generally, these advisers are prohibited from SEC reg-
                                     istration and must register with the state. However, there are more extensive exceptions
                                     than exist with the small advisers. Just as with any other category, those who are an adviser
                                     to an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, regis-
                                     ter with the SEC. That is true regardless of their size.
                                          There are several other ways for a mid-size firm to qualify for SEC registration. A mid-
                                     sized adviser is not prohibited from registering with the SEC:
                                     ■■ if the adviser is not required to be registered as an investment adviser with the securi-
                                          ties Administrator of the state in which it maintains its principal office and place of
                                          business;
                                     ■■ if registered, the adviser would not be subject to examination as an investment adviser
                                          by that securities Administrator;
                                     ■■ if the adviser is required to register in 15 or more states; or
                                     ■■ the adviser elects to take advantage of the buffer (described in the following para-
                                          graph).

                                     3. 3. 2. 1. 4    Exceptions Under Dodd-Frank
                                         The SEC is permitted to grant exceptions to advisers from the prohibition on
                                     Commission registration, including small and mid-sized advisers, if the application of the
                                     prohibition from registration would be “unfair, a burden on interstate commerce, or other-
                                     wise inconsistent with the purposes” of the Act. Under this authority, they have adopted
                                     several exemptions from the prohibition on registration, including:
                                     ■■ pension consultants, but only those with at least $200 million under control—the
                                         SEC picked that number to ensure that, in order to register with the SEC, the consul-
                                         tant’s activities are “significant enough to have an effect on national markets”;
                                     ■■ those mid-size advisers with at least $100 million in AUM, but less than $110 million
                                         in AUM who elect to register with the SEC rather than the state(s) (this buffer will
                                         be described below);
                                     ■■ investment advisers affiliated with an adviser already registered with the SEC;
                                     ■■ investment advisers expecting to be eligible for SEC registration within 120 days of
                                         filing Form ADV;
                                     ■■ multistate investment advisers (required to register in 15 or more states); and
                                     ■■ internet advisers.



                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                          Based on prior history, it is unlikely that the test will ask about any of the
                                                     above except for the pension consultant and the IA expecting to reach $100 mil-
                                                     lion within 120 days.


                                     3. 3. 2. 1. 5 The $20 million Buffer
                                       The SEC recognized that market conditions (or obtaining or losing clients) can cause
                                     AUM to fluctuate so they established a buffer to keep advisers from having to switch back




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 167                                                                                                                      7/15/2016 2:02:48 PM
     168        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                 and forth. The numbers work like this: A state registered adviser may, once it has assets
                                 under management of at least $100 million (subject to certain of the exceptions previ-
                                 ously mentioned, everyone needs at least $100 million to initiate registration with the
                                 SEC), may choose to remain state registered or may register with the SEC. Once AUM
                                 reach $110 million, registration with the SEC is mandatory—they can no longer stay state
                                 registered. Then, once registered with the SEC, an investment adviser need not withdraw
                                 its SEC registration unless it has less than $90 million of assets under management. This
                                 means that an investment adviser can register with the SEC with AUM of as little as
                                 $100 million, but must once AUM reach $110 million. Having become SEC registered,
                                 the IA can remain so as long as AUM remain at or above the $90 million level. Likewise,
                                 those investment advisers registered at the state level can choose to remain there until
                                 they reach the $110 million level. This buffer is designed to avoid the expense and hassle
                                 involved in potentially annual changes to where the investment adviser is registered.

                                 3. 3. 2. 1. 6 Time for Measuring AUM
                                      These numbers are based on the AUM reported on the IA’s annual updating amend-
                                 ment. The effect of this is that a federal covered adviser’s AUM could drop below $90 mil-
                                 lion during the year without triggering the need to change to state registration, just as long
                                 as the annual update showed at least the minimum $90 million required. Of course, the
                                 same would be true of a state registered adviser whose AUM peaked above $110 million
                                 during the year but then fell at the time of the update. If, at the time of filing the annual
                                 updating amendment to the Form ADV by an SEC registered IA, the reported AUM is
                                 less than $90 million, it is necessary for the investment adviser to withdraw its SEC reg-
                                 istration and register with the appropriate state(s) within 180 days. On the other hand, if
                                 a state registered adviser’s reported AUM exceed $110 million, registration with the SEC
                                 must take place within 90 days.

                                 3. 3. 2. 1. 7 Regulatory Assets Under Management (RAUM)
                                     When referring to assets under management for purposes of SEC registration or exemp-
                                 tion, the Dodd-Frank Act introduced a new term, regulatory assets under management.
                                 Whenever we show you the numbers, it is always RAUM (even if we don’t state that in
                                 the question). The SEC says that, in determining the amount of regulatory assets under
                                 management, the IA must include the securities portfolios for which it provides continu-
                                 ous and regular supervisory or management services. There are detailed instructions in the
                                 Form ADV Part 1 as to what these constitute, and we believe they are beyond the scope
                                 of the exam and will not be tested.



             3. 4            EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION FOR INVESTMENT
                             ADVISERS UNDER THE UNIFORM SECURITIES ACT
                                     The USA exempts from registration certain persons who, although they fall within
                                 the definition of an investment adviser, do not have to register as such in the state.
                                     The advisers exempt from registration with the state Administrator are those who
                                 have no place of business in the state but are registered in another state, provided their
                                 only clients in the state are:
                                 ■■ broker-dealers registered under the act;
                                 ■■ other investment advisers;




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 168                                                                                                        7/15/2016 2:02:48 PM
                                                         Session 3   Federal and State Regulation of Investment Advisers and Their Representatives      169




                                     ■■ institutional investors, including employee benefit plans with assets of not less than
                                        $1 million;
                                     ■■ existing clients who are not residents but are temporarily in the state;
                                     ■■ limited to five or fewer clients, other than those listed above, resident in the state dur-
                                        ing the preceding 12 months (called the de minimis exemption); or
                                     ■■ any others the Administrator exempts by rule or order.



                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                          Although we try to minimize the legal phraseology in this manual, sometimes
                                                     seeing the exact wording in the law can actually help clarify things. Here is what
                                                     the Uniform Securities Act has to say:
                                                             It is unlawful for any person to transact business in this state as an in-
                                                         vestment adviser or as an investment adviser representative unless
                                                         (1) he is so registered under this act; or
                                                         (2) he has no place of business in this state; and
                                                              (A) his only clients in this state are investment companies as defined in
                                                                  the Investment Company Act of 1940, other investment advisers,
                                                                  federal covered advisers, broker-dealers, banks, trust companies, sav-
                                                                  ings and loan associations, insurance companies, employee benefit
                                                                  plans with assets of not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000),
                                                                  and governmental agencies or instrumentalities, whether acting for
                                                                  themselves or as trustees with investment control, or other institu-
                                                                  tional investors as are designated by rule or order of the Administra-
                                                                  tor, or
                                                              (B) during the preceding twelve-month period has had no more than five
                                                                  clients, other than those specified in subparagraph (A), whether or
                                                                  not he or any of the persons to whom the communications are di-
                                                                  rected is then present in this state.




                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                         For purposes of the de minimis rule, how do we count clients? Do Mr. and
                                                     Mrs. Jones count as one or as two? The best way to tell is to read what the law
                                                     says:
                                                         Rule 203(b)(3)-1 – Definition of “Client” of an Investment Adviser
                                                         The following are deemed a single client:
                                                         (1) A natural person, and:
                                                         (i) Any minor child of the natural person;
                                                          (ii) Any relative, spouse, or relative of the spouse of the natural person who
                                                     has the same principal residence;
                                                          (iii) All accounts of which the natural person and/or the persons referred to
                                                     in this paragraph (a)(1) are the only primary beneficiaries; and
                                                          (iv) All trusts of which the natural person and/or the persons referred to in
                                                     this paragraph (a)(1) are the only primary beneficiaries.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 169                                                                                                                       7/15/2016 2:02:48 PM
     170        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT                         Because these exemptions all apply when the investment adviser does not
                                                    have an office in the state, it is relevant to understand that an investment adviser
                                                    or one of its representatives who advertises to the public, in any way, the avail-
                                                    ability of meeting with prospective clients in a hotel, country club, seminar, or any
                                                    other location in the state is considered to have an office in the state. However,
                                                    an investment adviser representative who contacts existing clients who happen to
                                                    be in the state and notifies them that he will be passing through the state and will
                                                    be available to meet with them in his hotel room is not considered to have an of-
                                                    fice in the state because the announcement is being made only to existing clients
                                                    and not to the public.




                             *
                      CASE STUDY                    Out-of-State Advice

                                                         Situation: A California-registered investment adviser with no offices located
                                                    in any other state has directed investment advice on five separate occasions over
                                                    the past year to individual residents of the state of Nevada. Is the investment
                                                    adviser required to register in the state of Nevada?
                                                         Analysis: The answer is no. Registration is not required because the invest-
                                                    ment adviser does not have an office in Nevada and directs business to five or
                                                    fewer individual residents of the state during the year. If the firm had an office in
                                                    Nevada, registration would be required in that state. Also, even if the firm had no
                                                    office in Nevada, registration would be required if business had been transacted
                                                    with six or more individual residents of the state during the previous 12 months.
                                                         If the business had been transacted with other investment advisers, broker-
                                                    dealers, or institutional investors, there is no limit as long as there is no office in
                                                    the state.


                                                                                            NV
                                                                          CA           Advice to five or
                                                                                      fewer clients living
                                                                                       in the other state




                                                                                         Investment
                                                                                        adviser firm’s
                                                                                            office




                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         Federal covered investment advisers exempt from state registration are not
                                                    exempt from paying state filing fees and giving notice to the Administrator. The
                                                    procedure followed is called notice filing. As part of the notice filing, the Admin-
                                                    istrator can require a federal covered adviser to file a copy of whatever has been
                                                    filed with the SEC, and, of course, pay a filing fee.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 170                                                                                                                    7/15/2016 2:02:48 PM
                                                 Session 3   Federal and State Regulation of Investment Advisers and Their Representatives      171




                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                   If a federal covered adviser only deals with institutions, other IAs, other BDs,
                                              and so forth, notice filing is not required. This is a similar concept to the USA not
                                              requiring registration of state registered advisers who have no place of business in
                                              the state and deal with this same group of clients. We have not heard of this ever
                                              being asked on the exam, but, you never know what NASAA has up their sleeve.




                               *
                             CASE STUDY       Exclusion from Definition and Exemptions from Registration

                                                    Situation: Charles & Goode, a partnership located in Illinois, has been in the
                                              business of selling investment advice in the form of research reports and manag-
                                              ing securities portfolios for the past 20 years. The partnership has earned a good
                                              reputation among investors and has managed less than $25 million until this year.
                                              This year they gained several new clients and now have $115 million in assets
                                              under management.
                                                    Most of Charles & Goode’s clients are wealthy individuals and residents of
                                              Illinois, but they have three clients who are residents of Wisconsin and 30 clients
                                              who live in Indiana. The principals of Charles & Goode have also formed a nonaf-
                                              filiated partnership called C&G Mutual Fund Advisers, Inc., which manages a
                                              small investment company with assets of $15 million. The partners in Charles
                                              & Goode are uncertain about what they must do to be in compliance with the
                                              Uniform Securities Act.
                                                    Analysis: As a partnership in the business of managing money for individual
                                              clients, Charles & Goode falls within the definition of an investment adviser and
                                              must so register with the Illinois securities Administrator until it manages $100
                                              million or more in assets. However, with the addition of new clients as of the cur-
                                              rent year, Charles & Goode will be exempt from registration with Illinois, because
                                              it is now a federal covered adviser that must register with the SEC because it has
                                              crossed the threshold of $110 million of assets under management.
                                                    Before becoming a federal covered adviser, Charles & Goode need not reg-
                                              ister in Wisconsin because they have five or fewer clients in the state; however,
                                              they would have to register in Indiana because they have more than five clients
                                              there. After becoming a federal covered adviser, Charles & Goode does not have
                                              to register in Indiana, Wisconsin, or Illinois—after it manages $110 million or
                                              more, it only has to register with the SEC, not the state Administrator.
                                                    The separate partnership, C&G Mutual Fund Advisers, Inc., which man-
                                              ages only $15 million, is exempt from registration in Illinois (or any other state)
                                              because those persons who operate as investment advisers to investment com-
                                              panies registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, regardless of the
                                              size of the investment company, are included in the definition of federal covered
                                              adviser. Both C&G Mutual Fund Advisers Inc. and the fund they manage may
                                              have to pay state filing fees under a procedure called notice filing.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 171                                                                                                               7/15/2016 2:02:49 PM
     172        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                            As a general rule, the SEC or federal rules involve bigger numbers than the
                                                       state rules—that is, large investment advisers must register with the SEC, whereas
                                                       small investment advisers must register with the state.

                                                   Adviser managing . . .




                                                                      . . . $110 million or more—Large-SEC registration


                                       $100 million                   . . . $100 million, but not $110 million—SEC or state registration


                                                                      . . . $25 but not $100 million—Mid-size-state registration


                                         $25 million
                                                                      . . . less than $25 million—Small adviser-state registration
                                          $0 million




                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT                           An investment adviser registered under state law whose assets reach $110
                                                       million under management has 90 days to register with the SEC. A federal cov-
                                                       ered investment adviser whose assets under management fall below $90 million
                                                       no longer qualifies for SEC registration and has 180 days to register with the
                                                       state(s).



             3. 4. 1             PRIVATE FUND ADVISER EXEMPTION UNDER STATE
                                 LAW
                                    NASAA amended its Model Rule for the Registration Exemption for Investment
                                 Advisers to Private Funds, on October 8, 2013, to make it almost identical to the federal
                                 exemption described at 3.3.1.3. There are only two differences that might be testable.
                                 ■■ If qualifying for the exemption as a 3(c)(1) issuer, (no more than 100 investors),
                                    NASAA’s Model Rule requires that all investors be “qualified.” That is, they must
                                    have either at least $1 million in assets managed by the investment adviser, or a net
                                    worth, excluding the value of the primary residence, of at least $2 million. Remember,
                                    “value of primary residence” means the fair market value of a person’s primary resi-
                                    dence, minus the amount of debt secured by the property up to its fair market value
                                    (net equity). Note that “qualified” for NASAA is significantly less than “qualified”
                                    under federal law.
                                 ■■ Neither the private fund adviser nor any of its advisory affiliates are subject to an event
                                    that would disqualify an issuer under Rule 506(d)(1) of SEC Regulation D, (the “bad
                                    actor” provisions).




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 172                                                                                                                  7/15/2016 2:02:49 PM
                                                    Session 3   Federal and State Regulation of Investment Advisers and Their Representatives      173




                   3. 4. 2     EXEMPT REPORTING ADVISER
                                    As long as the adviser continues to qualify for the exemption on either the federal
                               or state level, registration will not be required. However, certain reports will have to be
                               filed with either the SEC or the state(s) as appropriate. These firms are known as Exempt
                               Reporting Advisers (ERAs).




                             Q
                        QUICK QUIZ 3.D            Write A if the phrase describes an investment adviser that must register
                                               under the Uniform Securities Act and B if it does not.

                                               ____       1.	Publisher of a newspaper that renders general financial advice

                                               ____       2.	Broker-dealer that charges a fee for providing investment advice
                                                              over and above commissions from securities transactions

                                               ____       3.	Investment adviser that manages $10 million in assets

                                               4.   The Uniform Securities Act contains a number of definitions. A person who is
                                                    in the business of rendering investment advice for compensation is known as
                                                    A.    a broker-dealer
                                                    B.    a fiduciary
                                                    C.    an investment adviser
                                                    D.    an issuer

                                               5.   Which of the following is required to register as an investment adviser with
                                                    the state securities Administrator?
                                                    A. The author of a book on money and banking that was sold to residents
                                                       of the state in which it is published.
                                                    B. An investment advisory firm with $85 million in assets under manage-
                                                       ment that opens an office in the state.
                                                    C. A person with no office in the state whose only advisory clients are
                                                       investment companies and banks in the state.
                                                    D. A newly formed investment advisory firm with $145 million in assets
                                                       under management that has two offices in the state and serves exclu-
                                                       sively individual clients.



                   3. 5      REGISTRATION PROCEDURES UNDER FEDERAL LAW
                             FOR AN INVESTMENT ADVISER
                                   With only a few differences, the procedures for registering as an investment adviser
                               are the same, whether registering with the SEC or with the states. Those differences will
                               be pointed out as we go along.
                                   Registration is accomplished using the Form ADV. In 2010, there were significant
                               changes made to the ADV all of which are now in effect. In particular, they are no longer
                               Part I and Part II—it is now Part 1 and Part 2. Of greater importance is the fact that Part
                               2, which used to be a “check off the blank” form, has now become an open narrative.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 173                                                                                                                  7/15/2016 2:02:49 PM
     174        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                 Remember how you had tests in school that contained both multiple-choice and essay
                                 questions (and how you hated writing those essays)? That is basically what has happened
                                 here—the old form was multiple choice and the new one is essay.
                                     Investment advisers use Form ADV to:
                                 ■■ register with the Securities and Exchange Commission;
                                 ■■ register with one or more state securities authorities; or
                                 ■■ amend those registrations.

                                      Filing in almost all cases is done through the IARD.



                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         The Investment Adviser Registration Depository (IARD) is an electronic filing
                                                    system that facilitates investment adviser registration, regulatory review, and the
                                                    public disclosure information of investment adviser firms. FINRA is the developer
                                                    and operator of the IARD system. The system has been developed according to
                                                    the requirements of its sponsors, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)
                                                    and the North American Securities Administrators Association (NASAA), along
                                                    with those of an Industry Advisory Council representing the investment adviser
                                                    firms. For those of you with a securities license, this is the adviser’s version of the
                                                    CRD (Central Registration Depository).



             3. 5. 1             HOW IS FORM ADV ORGANIZED?
                                     Form ADV contains four parts: Part 1A asks a number of questions about the invest-
                                 ment adviser, its business practices, the persons who own and control the firm, and the
                                 persons who provide investment advice on behalf of the firm. All advisers registering with
                                 the SEC or any of the state securities authorities must complete Part 1A.
                                     Part 1A also contains several supplemental schedules. These include:
                                 ■■ Schedule A, which asks for information about the direct owners and executive officers
                                     (control persons);
                                 ■■ Schedule B, which asks for information about the indirect owners; and
                                 ■■ Disclosure Reporting Pages (or DRPs), which are schedules that ask for details about
                                     disciplinary events involving the adviser or advisory affiliates.

                                      Part 1B asks additional questions required by state securities authorities. Investment
                                 advisers applying for registration or who are registered only with the SEC do not have to
                                 complete Part 1B.
                                      Part 2A requires advisers to create narrative brochures containing information about
                                 the advisory firm. The requirements in Part 2A apply to all investment advisers registered
                                 with or applying for registration with the SEC and almost all states.
                                      Part 2B requires advisers to create brochure supplements containing information
                                 about certain supervised persons. The requirements in Part 2B apply to all investment
                                 advisers registered with or applying for registration with the SEC and almost all states.
                                      It may help you remember that the A in Part 2A tells us that that part is for the
                                 Adviser and the B in Part 2 is about the Bodies (the people) who work there.
                                      We will cover the brochures and brochure supplements in greater detail later in this
                                 session.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 174                                                                                                                    7/15/2016 2:02:50 PM
                                                    Session 3   Federal and State Regulation of Investment Advisers and Their Representatives      175




                               !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                      Control means the power, directly or indirectly, to direct the management
                                                 or policies of an investment adviser, whether through ownership of securities,
                                                 by contract, or otherwise. Under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 as well as
                                                 NASAA’s Model Rule, each of the firm’s officers, partners, or directors exercising
                                                 executive responsibility (or persons having similar status or functions) is presumed
                                                 to control the firm.
                                                     A person is presumed to control an IA organized as a corporation if the
                                                 person directly or indirectly has the right to vote 25% or more of a class of the
                                                 corporation’s voting securities; a person is presumed to control one that is a part-
                                                 nership if the person has the right to receive upon dissolution, or has contributed,
                                                 25% or more of the capital of the partnership.
                                                      Please note that this is a different percentage from the definition of control
                                                 person under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, where having more than 10%
                                                 of the voting power makes one a control person. Remember that control person
                                                 is defined three different ways: the Exchange Act requires more than 10%, the
                                                 Investment Company Act requires more than 25%, and the Advisers Act requires
                                                 25% or more.


                        3. 5. 1. 1   Form ADV
                                    The application for registration as an investment adviser is on the Form ADV.
                                    Part 1 contains information about the IA, including:
                                 ■■ location of principal office;
                                 ■■ location of books and records (if not at the principal office);
                                 ■■ form of business organization (sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation, LLC, and
                                    so forth);
                                 ■■ method of business;
                                 ■■ other business activities [broker-dealer, registered representative (agent) of a BD];
                                 ■■ maintaining custody of customer assets or exercising discretion;
                                 ■■ details relating to all control persons (officers, directors, partners, etc.);
                                 ■■ disciplinary history; and
                                 ■■ for state registered IAs, states in which the IA intends to or is already registered.

                                     Part 1B asks additional questions required by state securities authorities. Federal cov-
                                 ered advisers do not complete the Part 1B.
                                     Part 2A is known as the investment adviser’s brochure and tends to focus on customer
                                 related information, such as:
                                 ■■ compensation arrangements (fees, commissions, hourly charge);
                                 ■■ types of clients (individuals, institutions, pension plans);
                                 ■■ type of investments (equities, corporate debt, municipal securities, U.S. treasuries,
                                     investment companies);
                                 ■■ types of strategies employed (buy and hold, value, growth);
                                 ■■ methods of analysis used (technical, fundamental);




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 175                                                                                                                  7/15/2016 2:02:50 PM
     176        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                 ■■ educational and business background of those who render advice; and
                                 ■■ an audited balance sheet if a federal or state registered adviser requires or solicits sub-
                                    stantial prepayment of fees (defined shortly) or if a state registered adviser maintains
                                    custody (also discussed shortly).

                                     The brochure is arranged in a narrative form using plain English.
                                     Part 2B requires advisers to create brochure supplements containing information
                                 about certain supervised persons. Together, Part 2A and Part 2B are delivered to the client
                                 as described later in this session.
                                     State registered advisers file both Part 1 and Part 2 with the Administrator of each state
                                 in which they are registering.



                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT                         Under the USA, if a federal covered investment adviser has an office in the
                                                    state, the Administrator may require, by rule or by order, that the IA submit any
                                                    documents that have been filed with the SEC. A federal covered IA submits only
                                                    Part 1A of the Form ADV. Therefore, if the Administrator requests the Form ADV,
                                                    all that will be sent is the Part 1A. This is known as notice filing. If it is a state
                                                    registered adviser, then investment adviser must file Parts 1A and 1B with the
                                                    appropriate state(s).



             3. 5. 2             UPDATING THE FORM ADV
                                     The Form ADV must be updated each year by filing an annual updating amendment
                                 within 90 days after the end of the adviser’s fiscal year. This annual updating amendment
                                 is used to update the responses to all items on the ADV. Of critical importance is the
                                 verification of assets under management (AUM) ensuring that the adviser is eligible to
                                 continue being registered with the SEC. One of the requirements relating to the brochure
                                 described in Part 2 is that submission must be made of a summary of material changes
                                 either in the brochure (cover page or the page immediately thereafter) or as an exhibit to
                                 the brochure.


                   3. 5. 2. 1         Amendments for Material Changes
                                     In addition to the annual updating amendment, the IA must amend the Form ADV
                                 by filing additional amendments promptly if information relating to any of the following
                                 changes or becomes inaccurate in any way:
                                 ■■ Change of the registrant’s name
                                 ■■ Change in the principal business location
                                 ■■ Change in the location of books and records, if they are kept somewhere other than
                                     at the principal location
                                 ■■ Change to the contact person preparing the form
                                 ■■ Change in organizational structure, such as from partnership to corporation and so on
                                 ■■ Information provided in the brochure becomes materially inaccurate
                                 ■■ Change to any of the questions regarding disciplinary actions
                                 ■■ Change in policy regarding custody of the customer funds and/or securities




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 176                                                                                                                   7/15/2016 2:02:50 PM
                                                      Session 3   Federal and State Regulation of Investment Advisers and Their Representatives      177




                   3. 5. 3       FEES
                                     Even though registration under Form ADV remains in effect until it is withdrawn by
                                 the registrant or canceled or revoked by the SEC (or the state), there is a requirement for
                                 annual renewal. There are fees for the initial filing and renewals. If an investment adviser
                                 changes its form of business organization (e.g., from a sole proprietorship to a corporation),
                                 a new ADV, but no fees, would be required.



                               !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT               Successor firm:
                                                     Under both federal and state law, a successor firm registers by filing a new
                                                 application and, in the case of the SEC, paying the appropriate fee and, under the
                                                 USA, without additional fee. Please note the difference—one case involves a fee,
                                                 the other does not.


                        3. 5. 3. 1   Effective Date of Registration
                                     Assuming there are no irregularities in the application, registration with the SEC
                                 takes effect on the 45th day after filing of a complete application and, as with all securities
                                 professionals, at noon of the 30th day in the case of state registered investment advisers.


                   3. 5. 4       FORM ADV-W
                                      If an adviser no longer desires to engage in the business, application to withdraw reg-
                                 istration is accomplished by filing Form ADV-W. Form ADV-W must be filed in order to
                                 withdraw the registration voluntarily. The request to withdraw from registration accom-
                                 panied by properly filed Form ADV-W becomes effective 60 days after filing with the SEC
                                 and after 30 days in the case of state registered advisers.




                             Q
                        QUICK QUIZ 3.E           1.   ABC Advisers is a federal covered IA. John Oldman has been responsible for
                                                      keeping the firm’s Form ADV updated for the last 40 years. John has sud-
                                                      denly announced his immediate retirement. This would require
                                                      A. prompt filing of an amended ADV with the SEC indicating the change in
                                                         contact person
                                                      B. prompt filing of an ADV-W with the SEC indicating the change of con-
                                                         tact person
                                                      C. filing of amended ADV within 90 days of the end of the adviser’s fiscal
                                                         year giving notice of the change of contact person
                                                      D. filing of the ADV-W within 90 days of the end of the adviser’s fiscal year
                                                         giving notice of the change of contact person




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 177                                                                                                                    7/15/2016 2:02:50 PM
     178        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                                    2.   The Investment Advisers Act of 1940 would permit an ADV to be filed by
                                                         a(n)
                                                           I.   corporation
                                                          II.   partnership
                                                         III.   sole proprietorship
                                                         IV.    unincorporated association
                                                          A.    I and II
                                                          B.    I, II, and III
                                                          C.    II and III
                                                          D.    I, II, III, and IV


                   3. 5. 4. 1         Cancellation of Registration
                                     The SEC has the power to cancel the registration of any adviser upon finding that the
                                 adviser is no longer in existence, is not engaged in business as an investment adviser, or
                                 does not meet the necessary dollar standards to remain SEC registered. If not withdrawn
                                 by the adviser or canceled or revoked by the SEC, registration continues indefinitely as
                                 long as the proper renewal procedures are followed. In the case of state registered advisers,
                                 the Administrator has similar powers and may also cancel when mental incompetence has
                                 been proven.


             3. 5. 5             INVESTMENT COUNSEL
                                     One of the terms that may appear on the exam is that of investment counsel. Questions
                                 dealing with this topic require the student to know that there are two criteria specified in
                                 the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 that must be met in order to use the term to describe
                                 the nature of the IA’s business. They are as follows:
                                 ■■ The IA’s principal business must be giving investment advice. This basically excludes finan-
                                     cial planners and others for whom investment advice is only a part of what they do.
                                 ■■ Provide investment supervisory services. This one is a bit harder for most to understand
                                     so I thought I would give some details as issued by the SEC.

                                          Continuous and Regular Supervisory or Management Services.

                                           General Criteria. You provide continuous and regular supervisory or management
                                      services with respect to an account if:

                                         (a) you have discretionary authority over and provide ongoing supervisory or manage-
                                      ment services with respect to the account; or

                                           (b) you do not have discretionary authority over the account, but you have ongoing
                                      responsibility to select or make recommendations, based upon the needs of the client, as
                                      to specific securities or other investments the account may purchase or sell and, if such
                                      recommendations are accepted by the client, you are responsible for arranging or effecting
                                      the purchase or sale.

                                           (c) you are compensated based on the average value of the client’s assets you manage
                                      over a specified period of time, that suggests that you provide continuous and regular super-
                                      visory or management services for the account. If you receive compensation in a manner




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 178                                                                                                            7/15/2016 2:02:50 PM
                                                    Session 3   Federal and State Regulation of Investment Advisers and Their Representatives      179




                                  similar to either of the following, that suggests you do not provide continuous and regular
                                  supervisory or management services for the account—

                                      (i) you are compensated based upon the time spent with a client during a client visit; or

                                      (ii) you are paid a retainer based on a percentage of assets covered by a financial plan.

                                      You do not provide continuous and regular supervisory or management services for an
                                  account if you:

                                     (a) provide market timing recommendations (i.e., to buy or sell), but have no ongoing
                                  management responsibilities;

                                      (b) provide only impersonal investment advice (e.g., market newsletters);

                                       (c) make an initial asset allocation, without continuous and regular monitoring and
                                  reallocation; or

                                       (d) provide advice on an intermittent or periodic basis (such as upon client request,
                                  in response to a market event), or on a specific date (e.g., the account is reviewed and
                                  adjusted quarterly).




                             Q
                        QUICK QUIZ 3.F         1.   Which of the following investment advisers would be permitted to use the
                                                    term investment counsel?
                                                    A. A financial planner offering a wide range of services to his clients, includ-
                                                       ing tax planning, estate planning, and insurance planning, as well as
                                                       investment advice
                                                    B. A professional providing a market timing service with an annual sub-
                                                       scription fee of $495 (this service attempts to maximize profits by sug-
                                                       gesting entry and exit points for over 100 listed stocks)
                                                    C. A firm whose exclusive business is placing their client’s assets into model
                                                       portfolios
                                                    D. All of the above

                                               2.   Under which of the following circumstances would the SEC be permitted to
                                                    cancel or revoke an investment adviser’s registration?
                                                      I. A registered investment adviser with no place of business in the state has
                                                         fewer than 6 clients.
                                                     II. The annual updating amendment has not been filed for the current fiscal
                                                         year, and mail addressed to the investment adviser is returned with a
                                                         notation “no forwarding address available.”
                                                    III. An investment adviser doing business in 10 states has been enjoined by
                                                         a competent court of jurisdiction in one of those states from engaging in
                                                         the securities business.
                                                    IV. A registered investment adviser is insolvent.
                                                     A. I and II
                                                     B. II and III
                                                     C. II, III, and IV
                                                     D. I, II, III, and IV




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 179                                                                                                                  7/15/2016 2:02:50 PM
     180        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




             3. 5. 6             QUALIFICATIONS OF MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL
                                     Although there are no minimum educational or experience requirements, there is a
                                 specific area on the Form ADV Part 2 where state registered advisers must identify each of
                                 the principal executive officers and management persons, and describe their formal educa-
                                 tion and business background. If this information has been supplied elsewhere in the Form
                                 ADV, it is not necessary to repeat it in response to this question.



             3. 6            FINANCIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR REGISTRATION AS AN
                             INVESTMENT ADVISER
                                     Under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, no specific financial requirements, such
                                 as a minimum net worth, are spelled out. However, as we will see, there are financial dis-
                                 closures that must be made to clients under certain conditions.
                                     Under the Uniform Securities Act, the Administrator may, by rule or order, establish
                                 minimum financial requirements for an investment adviser registered in the state. Those
                                 will be discussed shortly.


             3. 6. 1             SUBSTANTIAL PREPAYMENT OF FEES
                                     Both state and federal law offer extra protection to those clients of investment advis-
                                 ers who have made substantial advance payment of fees for services to be rendered in
                                 the future. The term used is substantial prepayment of fees. In the case of a federal covered
                                 adviser, it is considered substantial if the IA collects prepayments of more than $1,200 per
                                 client, six months or more in advance. Under the USA, it is more than $500, and again,
                                 six months or more in advance.



                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                        Under the USA, when an investment adviser accepts prepayments of fees of
                                                    more than $500 for a contract period of six months OR more, it is known as a
                                                    substantial prepayment. However, under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, it
                                                    does not become a substantial prepayment until it exceeds $1,200.



             3. 6. 2             BALANCE SHEET REQUIREMENT FOR FEDERAL
                                 COVERED ADVISERS
                                     Any federal covered investment adviser who requires or solicits clients for substantial
                                 prepayment of fees (as defined at 3.6.1) must include a balance sheet with the adviser’s
                                 ADV Part 2A for the adviser’s most recent fiscal year. The balance sheet must be prepared
                                 in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), audited by an
                                 independent public accountant, and accompanied by a note stating the principles used to
                                 prepare it, the basis of securities included, and any other explanations required for clarity.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 180                                                                                                           7/15/2016 2:02:50 PM
                                                         Session 3   Federal and State Regulation of Investment Advisers and Their Representatives      181




                   3. 6. 3           BALANCE SHEET REQUIREMENTS FOR STATE
                                     REGISTERED ADVISERS
                                          An audited balance sheet must be included in the brochure for any state registered
                                     investment adviser who requires or solicits clients for substantial prepayment of fees (as
                                     defined at 3.6.1). In addition, those who maintain custody of client funds and/or securities
                                     must include an audited balance sheet with their ADV Part 2A for their most recent fis-
                                     cal year with the same requirements. The audited balance sheet is also required when the
                                     custodian is a related (affiliated) broker-dealer. Furthermore, state registered advisers who
                                     exercise discretionary authority over client accounts but do not maintain custody must
                                     file with the Administrator within 90 days of the end of the adviser’s fiscal year a balance
                                     sheet, but this one does not have to be audited. However, it must follow GAAP and be
                                     true and accurate.


                   3. 6. 4           DISCLOSURE OF FINANCIAL IMPAIRMENT
                                         Any investment adviser that has discretionary authority or custody of client funds or
                                     securities, or requires or solicits substantial prepayment of fees, must disclose any financial
                                     condition that is reasonably likely to impair their ability to meet contractual commitments
                                     to their clients. As an example, the SEC has indicated that disclosure may be required of
                                     any arbitration award “sufficiently large that payment of it would create such a financial
                                     condition.”
                                         Here is the way it is stated in the Form ADV Part 2:

                                             “If you have discretionary authority or custody of client funds or securities, or
                                         you require or solicit prepayment of more than $1,200 in fees per client, six months
                                         or more in advance, disclose any financial condition that is reasonably likely to im-
                                         pair your ability to meet contractual commitments to clients.”


                   3. 6. 5           SPECIFIC FINANCIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR STATE
                                     REGISTERED ADVISERS
                                          The Administrator may require an adviser who has custody of client funds or securi-
                                     ties or has discretion over a client’s account to post a surety bond or maintain a minimum
                                     net worth. Usually, the require­ment is higher for custody than for discretion. Typically,
                                     the net worth required of investment advisers with discretionary authority is $10,000 and
                                     that for those taking custody is $35,000. If the adviser is using a surety bond instead, the
                                     requirement in either case is $35,000. An adviser who does not exercise discretion and
                                     does not maintain custody, but does accept prepayment of fees of more than $500, six or
                                     more months in advance, must maintain a positive net worth at all times.



                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                          Because the USA is only a template, some states have higher net worth or
                                                     bonding requirements. The exam may want you to know that if an IA meets the
                                                     net worth or surety bonding requirements of the state where its principal office is
                                                     located, that is sufficient in any other state in which it may be registered.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 181                                                                                                                       7/15/2016 2:02:50 PM
     182        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT                        One of the effects of the NSMIA is to limit the powers of an Administra-
                                                    tor over a federal covered adviser. Section 222 of the Investment Advisers Act
                                                    of 1940 states that when it comes to federal covered advisers, any financial or
                                                    bonding requirements, as well as rules relating to recordkeeping, are solely under
                                                    federal jurisdiction.




                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT                        The proper term to use when referring to the financial requirements of an
                                                    investment adviser is net worth, while for broker-dealers it is net capital. How-
                                                    ever, we have heard from a number of students that NASAA is using net capital
                                                    where they should be using net worth in questions about IAs. So, if you want to
                                                    get the question right, answer it the way they give it to you. You will see several
                                                    examples of this in our practice questions.


                   3. 6. 5. 1         Failure to Maintain Minimum Net Worth
                                      The USA specifies the action to be taken by a registered investment adviser whose
                                 net worth falls below the required minimum. By the close of business on the next business
                                 day, the adviser must notify the Administrator that the investment adviser’s net worth is
                                 less than the minimum required. After sending that notice, the adviser must file a finan-
                                 cial report with the Administrator by the close of business on the next business day. One
                                 more item that must be included in the report is the number of client accounts. When the
                                 adviser’s net worth is below the minimum requirement, the adviser must obtain a bond in
                                 an amount of the net worth deficiency rounded up to the nearest $5,000.




                             *
                         EXAMPLE                         A state registered investment adviser discovers on Monday that its net worth
                                                    is below the minimum requirement. No later than the close of business on Tues-
                                                    day, notice must be sent to the Administrator of the state in which the invest-
                                                    ment adviser has its principal office. Then, no later than the close of business on
                                                    Wednesday, the investment adviser must file a detailed report with the Adminis-
                                                    trator of its financial condition. Included in the report must be a statement as to
                                                    the number of client accounts.




                             *
                         EXAMPLE                         An investment adviser who maintains custody of customer funds and securi-
                                                    ties discovers that their net worth is only $23,000. Even though the adviser only
                                                    needs a net worth of $35,000, this would require immediate surety bonding in
                                                    the amount of $15,000 because it must be rounded up to the nearest $5,000.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 182                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:02:50 PM
                                                      Session 3   Federal and State Regulation of Investment Advisers and Their Representatives      183




                        3. 6. 5. 2   Computing Net Worth
                                     For NASAA purposes, the term net worth means an excess of assets over liabilities,
                                 as determined by generally accepted accounting principles, but shall not include the fol-
                                 lowing as assets:
                                 ■■ Goodwill
                                 ■■ Patents
                                 ■■ Copyrights
                                 ■■ All other assets of an intangible nature, home, home furnishings, automobile(s), and
                                     any other personal items not readily marketable in the case of an individual; advances
                                     or loans to stockholders and officers in the case of a corporation; and advances or loans
                                     to partners in the case of a partnership

                                     However, furniture used in the office, such as a sofa in the reception room, or bookcases
                                 in the company research library, are considered assets for the purpose of the computation.




                             Q
                        QUICK QUIZ 3.G           1.   All of the following statements regarding the USA’s minimum financial
                                                      requirements of an investment adviser are correct EXCEPT
                                                      A. advisers maintaining custody of customer funds and/or securities must
                                                         have a net worth of $35,000
                                                      B. advisers maintaining discretion over client accounts must have net worth
                                                         of $35,000
                                                      C. advisers accepting substantial prepayments of fees must have a positive
                                                         net worth
                                                      D. advisers whose only custody of client funds is the ability to have
                                                         direct deduction of fees are exempt from the net worth and bonding
                                                         requirements
                                                 2.   A registered investment adviser has discretionary authority over client
                                                      accounts. Its accounting department has just discovered that the firm’s net
                                                      worth is $8,500. Under the Uniform Securities Act, they
                                                        I. must notify the administrator of the net worth deficiency by the close of
                                                           that day
                                                       II. must notify the administrator of the net worth deficiency by the close of
                                                           the next business day
                                                      III. must file a financial report with the Administrator by the first business
                                                           day following notice
                                                      IV. may no longer exercise discretion until they increase their net worth
                                                      A.    I and III
                                                      B.    I and IV
                                                      C.    II and III
                                                      D.    II and IV




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 183                                                                                                                    7/15/2016 2:02:50 PM
     184        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                                    3.   XYZ Advisers has its principal office in State A. XYZ maintains custody of cus-
                                                         tomer securities and they wish to open an office in State B. They have been
                                                         informed that the Administrator of State B requires all investment advisers
                                                         that take custody to maintain a minimum net worth of $65,000. Which of
                                                         the following statements is CORRECT?
                                                         A. XYZ will have to meet State B’s net worth requirements if it wishes to
                                                            register there.
                                                         B. XYZ can register in State B only if they cease taking custody.
                                                         C. As long as XYZ meets the net worth requirements of State A, it can reg-
                                                            ister in any other state.
                                                         D. In lieu of meeting State B’s requirements, a surety bond may be posted.

                                                    4.   Prompt notification to the Administrator must be made when
                                                         A. a federal covered adviser with a place of business in the state relocates
                                                            that office to a different city in the state
                                                         B. there is a change to the marital status of an agent
                                                         C. a non-exempt issuer’s dividend is reduced
                                                         D. there is a material change to any information contained in a broker-deal-
                                                            er’s application for registration that is on file with the state




             3. 7            INVESTMENT ADVISER REPRESENTATIVE
                                     Investment adviser representative (IAR) means any partner, officer, director (or an
                                 individual occupying a similar status or performing similar functions), or other individual
                                 employed by or associated with an investment adviser that is registered or required to
                                 be registered under the Uniform Securities Act (state registered IA). If employed by or
                                 associated with a federal covered adviser, this individual only comes under the registration
                                 requirements by having a place of business in the state. In both cases (state or federal), the
                                 individual meets the definition of an IAR by doing any of the following:
                                 ■■ Makes any recommendations or otherwise renders advice regarding securities
                                 ■■ Manages accounts or portfolios of clients
                                 ■■ Determines which recommendation or advice regarding securities should be given
                                 ■■ Solicits, offers or negotiates for the sale of or sells investment advisory services
                                 ■■ Supervises employees who perform any of the foregoing



                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E                   The use of the term individual here is important. Only an individual, or a
                                                    natural person, can be an investment adviser representative. The investment
                                                    advisory firm is the legal person (entity) that the IAR (natural person) represents
                                                    in performing the above listed functions.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 184                                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:02:50 PM
                                                  Session 3   Federal and State Regulation of Investment Advisers and Their Representatives      185




                   3. 7. 1    REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS FOR INVESTMENT
                              ADVISER REPRESENTATIVES
                                   It is unlawful for any state registered investment adviser to employ an investment
                              adviser representative unless the investment adviser representative is registered under this
                              act. However, the registration of an investment adviser representative is not effective dur-
                              ing any period when he is not employed by an investment adviser registered under this
                              act. The same holds true for a federal covered adviser to employ, supervise, or associate
                              with an investment adviser representative having a place of business located in this state,
                              unless such investment adviser representative is registered under this act, or is exempt
                              from registration.



                             !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT             The effect of the previous statement (found in Section 203A of the Invest-
                                              ment Advisers Act of 1940), is that for those performing as IARs for federal
                                              covered advisers, state registration is required only in those states where that
                                              individual has a place of business. Place of business of an investment adviser rep-
                                              resentative means:
                                                   (1) an office at which the investment adviser representative regularly pro-
                                              vides investment advisory services, solicits, meets with, or otherwise communi-
                                              cates with clients; and
                                                   (2) any other location that is held out to the general public as a location at
                                              which the investment adviser representative provides investment advisory ser-
                                              vices, solicits, meets with, or otherwise communicates with clients.

                                   Registration of an investment adviser also leads to automatic registration of partners,
                              officers, or directors functioning as investment adviser representatives. What does that
                              really mean? An investment adviser representative can only be registered as a representa-
                              tive of a registered adviser, so individuals holding the positions mentioned above are in
                              limbo until the adviser’s registration becomes effective. At that time, their individual
                              registrations go into effect. Instead of filing a Form U-4 or Form U-10, their personal infor-
                              mation is included in the Form ADV Part 1 filed by the investment adviser. And, just like
                              any other IAR, they must take and pass the appropriate qualification exam(s) and wait for
                              notice of effectiveness.
                                   For those of you who have taken a FINRA exam, you know there is a supervisory level
                              of registration—registered principal. No such gradations apply under NASAA rules. So,
                              no matter how high ranking the officer (of either a BD or IA), he just registers as either
                              an agent or an IAR.
                                   Many independent financial planners operate as independent contractors, not employ-
                              ees of investment advisory firms or broker-dealers. Regardless, they are required to be regis-
                              tered as investment adviser representatives of the firm and must be placed under the same
                              level of supervisory scrutiny as employees. Their business cards may contain the name of
                              their separate planning entity, but must also disclose the name of the entity registered as
                              the investment adviser.



                             !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT            Registered investment advisers are responsible for the supervision of indi-
                                              viduals registered as investment adviser representatives, but acting in the capacity




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 185                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:02:50 PM
     186        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                                    of independent contractors, to the same extent that they supervise those who are
                                                    actual employees of the firm.
                                                               Investment Adviser: Business or Individual




                                                                   Investment Adviser Representative:
                                                                            Individual Only




                                                          Registration as an IAR is done solely on a state basis. IARs never register with
                                                    the SEC, even when they are representing a federal covered adviser. That is why
                                                    it is NASAA who has the responsibility for this exam, rather than FINRA or the
                                                    SEC.


                   3. 7. 1. 1         Financial Requirements of IARs
                                      Unlike an investment adviser, there are no financial requirements, or net worth
                                 requirements, to register as an investment adviser representative. However, as with the
                                 other securities professionals, insolvency (bankruptcy) is a cause for denial or revocation
                                 of registration.


             3. 7. 2             EXCLUSIONS FROM THE DEFINITION OF
                                 INVESTMENT ADVISER REPRESENTATIVE
                                     Certain employees of investment advisory firms are excluded from the term invest-
                                 ment adviser representative, provided their activities are confined to clerical duties or those
                                 activities that are solely incidental to the investment advisory services offered, such as
                                 mailing out a research report to an advisory client when directed by an IAR. Should the
                                 investment advisory employee “step over the line” as the saying goes, and perform any
                                 activity that makes one an IAR, the employee would then have to register as an invest-
                                 ment adviser representative. Exclusion criteria for administrative employees of investment
                                 advisers are much the same as those for administrative personnel of broker-dealers.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 186                                                                                                                   7/15/2016 2:02:51 PM
                                                    Session 3   Federal and State Regulation of Investment Advisers and Their Representatives      187




                                     In addition, an individual is not an investment adviser representative if the person
                                 does not on a regular basis solicit, meet with, or otherwise communicate with clients of the
                                 investment adviser or provides only impersonal investment advice.
                                     Let’s define that last term because you’re going to see it a number of times in this
                                 course. “Impersonal investment advice” means investment advisory services provided by
                                 means of written material or oral statements that do not purport to meet the objectives or
                                 needs of specific individuals or accounts.


                        3. 7. 2. 1   De minimis Exemption for Investment Adviser Representatives
                                     Just as is the case with investment advisers, if an IAR does not maintain a place of
                                 business in the state and, during the preceding 12-month period has had no more than 5
                                 retail clients, registration in the state is not required.


                   3. 7. 3       IAR TERMINATION PROCEDURES
                                     If an investment adviser representative terminates employment with an investment
                                 adviser, notification requirements depend on how the investment adviser is registered.
                                     If the investment adviser is a state-registered adviser, the firm must notify the
                                 Administrator. If the investment adviser is a federal covered adviser, the investment
                                 adviser representative must notify the Administrator.
                                     Please note how this is different from an agent’s termination where all of the parties
                                 involved notify the Administrator. Just as we gave you a clue to use the a in agent to rep-
                                 resent all, visualize the I in IAR as the number 1 to remember that only one person gives
                                 notification.
                                     The one area in which termination of agents and IARs is the same is that in both
                                 cases, termination is accomplished by filing the Form U-5.




                             Q
                        QUICK QUIZ 3.H

                                                 ____
                                                     True or False?

                                                          1.	An investment adviser representative must register with the
                                                              SEC if she has clients with assets of $110 million or more under
                                                              management.

                                                 ____     2.	A state-registered investment adviser maintaining custody of a cus-
                                                              tomer’s securities or funds and exercising discretion in the account is
                                                              generally required to maintain a minimum net worth of $35,000.

                                                 ____     3.	An employee of an investment advisory firm is an investment adviser
                                                              representative if his duties are confined to clerical activities.

                                                 ____     4.	An administrative employee who receives specific compensation for
                                                              offering investment advisory services is not an investment adviser
                                                              representative.

                                                 ____     5.	An employee of an investment advisory firm is an investment
                                                              adviser representative if his duties involve making investment
                                                              recommendations.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 187                                                                                                                  7/15/2016 2:02:51 PM
     188        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                                    6.   Under the Uniform Securities Act, registration with the state could be
                                                         required of which of the following?
                                                         A. A financial planner or other person who provides investment advisory
                                                            services to others for compensation
                                                         B. A publisher of a bona fide newspaper, news magazine, or business or
                                                            financial publication of general and regular circulation
                                                         C. A federal covered investment adviser
                                                         D. Any person who the Administrator excludes by rule or order

                                                    7.   Under the Uniform Securities Act, which of the following is NOT an invest-
                                                         ment adviser representative?
                                                         A. A director of a state registered investment advisory firm who determines
                                                            specific recommendations for clients
                                                         B. An associate in an SEC-registered investment advisory firm who has
                                                            a place of business in the state and manages the account of only one
                                                            individual client
                                                         C. A clerk employed by a state registered investment advisory firm
                                                         D. A vice president of a state registered investment advisory firm who
                                                            supervises employees who solicit clients for the firm



             3. 8            BOOKS AND RECORDS REQUIRED BY FEDERAL AND
                             STATE LAW
                                      The Uniform Securities Act virtually duplicates the first 12 items of the recordkeep-
                                 ing requirements of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. The major exception is that on
                                 the eleventh bullet (a copy of each notice), NASAA’s Model Rule requires a copy when
                                 the material is distributed to two or more persons(other than persons connected with the
                                 investment adviser), not 10 or more as is the case under federal law.
                                      The Investment Advisers Act requires every adviser (other than one spe­cifically
                                 exempted from registration) to make, keep, and preserve such records, and for such periods
                                 as the SEC may prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the pro-
                                 tection of investors. By rule, the SEC has set forth various recordkeeping requirements for
                                 investment advisers. Moreover, the act makes it unlawful for any person to willfully make
                                 any untrue state­ment of a material fact in any report filed with the SEC or to willfully omit
                                 to state in a report any material fact required to be stated therein.
                                      The SEC and the states require investment advisers to maintain the following books
                                 and records:
                                 ■■ A journal, including cash receipts and disbursement records
                                 ■■ General and auxiliary ledgers reflecting asset, liability, reserve, capital, income, and
                                      expense accounts
                                 ■■ A memorandum of each order given by the adviser for the purchase or sale of any
                                      security, or any instruction received by the adviser from the client concerning the pur-
                                      chase, sale, receipt, or delivery of a security, and of any modification or cancellation of
                                      any such order or instruction
                                 ■■ All checkbooks, bank statements, canceled checks, and cash reconciliations
                                 ■■ All bills or statements (or copies thereof) paid or unpaid




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 188                                                                                                             7/15/2016 2:02:51 PM
                                                  Session 3   Federal and State Regulation of Investment Advisers and Their Representatives      189




                              ■■ All trial balances, financial statements, and internal audit work­ing papers
                              ■■ Originals of all written communications received and copies of all written communi-
                                 cations sent by the adviser related to any recommendation or advice given or proposed
                                 to be given; any receipt, disbursement, or delivery of funds or securities; or the placing
                                 or execution of any order to purchase or sell any secu­rity (provided, however, that if
                                 the investment adviser sends any notice, circular, or other advertisement offering any
                                 report, analysis, publication, or other investment advisory service to more than 10
                                 persons, the investment adviser shall not be required to keep a record of the names
                                 and addresses of the persons to whom it was sent; except that if the notice, circular, or
                                 advertisement is distributed to persons named on any list, the investment adviser shall
                                 retain with the copy of the notice, circular or advertisement a memorandum describ-
                                 ing the list and its source.)
                              ■■ A record of all accounts in which the adviser is vested with any discretionary power
                                 with respect to the funds, securities, or transactions of any client
                              ■■ All powers of attorney and other evidences of the granting of any discretionary author-
                                 ity by any client to the adviser, or copies thereof
                              ■■ All written agreements (or copies thereof) entered into by the adviser with a client or
                                 otherwise relating to his investment advisory business
                              ■■ A file containing a copy of each notice, circular, advertisement, newspaper article,
                                 investment letter, bulletin, or other communication, including by electronic media
                                 (email), that the investment adviser circulates or distributes, directly or indirectly, to
                                 10 or more persons (other than persons connected with the investment adviser); if
                                 the item, including communications by electronic media recommends the purchase or
                                 sale of a specific security and does not state the reasons for the recommendation, the
                                 adviser must prepare a memorandum indicating the reasons for that recommendation
                              ■■ A file containing a copy of all written communications received or sent regarding any
                                 litigation involving the investment adviser or any investment adviser representative
                                 or employee, and regarding any written customer or client complaint
                              ■■ With certain exceptions, a record of all securities transactions in which an investment
                                 adviser or any advisory representative has, or by reason of such transaction acquires,
                                 any direct or benefi­cial ownership

                                  In practice, the recordkeeping rule has served as a deterrent to the prac­tice of scalping
                              because it requires all advisory representatives to report all of their security transactions to
                              their affiliated advisory firms on a reg­ular basis; these reports are subject to SEC examina-
                              tion. Scalping is the practice whereby an investment adviser, before the dissemination of
                              a securities recommendation, trades on the anticipated short-run market activity that may
                              result from the recommendation.



                             !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT               Under the NASAA Model Rule on Recordkeeping of Investment Advisers,
                                               if a state-registered investment adviser has custody because it advises a pooled
                                               investment vehicle, the adviser must also keep true, accurate, and current audited
                                               account statements. The records required to be made and kept include:
                                                   ■■ the date(s) of the audit;




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 189                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:02:51 PM
     190        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                                         ■■ a copy of the audited financial statements; and

                                                         ■■ evidence of the mailing of the audited financial statements to all limited
                                                            partners, members or other beneficial owners within 120 days of the
                                                            end of its fiscal year.
                                                         The adviser is not required to keep a copy of the minutes of the board of
                                                    directors, bank statements, or the trust agreement.



             3. 8. 1             TIME PERIOD FOR MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS
                                      The Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as well as the Uniform Securities Act, requires
                                 that an investment adviser’s books and records be maintained in a readily accessible place
                                 for five years. The five‑year period will run from the end of the fiscal year during which the
                                 last entry was made on the record. During the first two years of the five-year period, the
                                 rule requires that the records be maintained in the principal office of the adviser. However,
                                 after this initial two-year period, the records may be preserved in electronic or microfilm
                                 format or any other form of data storage in compliance with the act. Even though the
                                 recordkeeping requirements are almost identical, it is important to remember for the test
                                 that federal covered advisers only comply with the SEC’s requirements while state regis-
                                 tered advisers need only meet the requirements of the state where their principal office is
                                 located.
                                      Partnership articles and any amendments thereto, articles of incorporation, charters,
                                 minute books, and stock certificate books of the investment adviser and of any predecessor
                                 must be maintained in the principal office of the investment adviser and preserved until at
                                 least three years after termination of the enterprise.



                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT                         A few pages ago, we gave you a Test Topic Alert that emphasized that as
                                                    long as state registered investment advisers met the net worth or surety bond re-
                                                    quirements of their home state, that was sufficient for any state in which they are
                                                    registered. The same is true regarding recordkeeping requirements and the proof
                                                    is in the following statement copied from the Form ADV:
                                                          2. State-Registered Investment Adviser Affidavit
                                                          If you are subject to state regulation, by signing this Form ADV, you repre-
                                                    sent that, you are in compliance with the registration requirements of the state
                                                    in which you maintain your principal place of business and are in compliance
                                                    with the bonding, capital, and recordkeeping requirements of that state.



             3. 8. 2             STORAGE REQUIREMENTS
                                     The records required to be maintained and preserved may be maintained and pre-
                                 served for the required time by an investment adviser on:
                                 ■■ paper or hard copy form, as those records are kept in their original form;
                                 ■■ micrographic media, including microfilm, microfiche, or any similar medium; or




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 190                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:02:51 PM
                                                     Session 3   Federal and State Regulation of Investment Advisers and Their Representatives      191




                                ■■ electronic storage media, including any digital (computer disk) storage medium or
                                   system as long as the investment adviser establishes and maintains procedures
                                    —— to maintain and preserve the records, so as to reasonably safeguard them from loss,
                                       alteration, or destruction,
                                    —— to limit access to the records to properly authorized personnel and the Administrator,
                                       and
                                    —— to reasonably ensure that any reproduction of a non-electronic original record on
                                       electronic storage media is complete, true, and legible when retrieved.

                                    In all cases, the investment adviser must arrange and index the records in a way
                                that permits easy location, access, and retrieval of any particular record and provide the
                                Administrator with the means to access, view, and print the records.




                             Q
                         QUICK QUIZ 3.I         1.   Under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, all of the following are true
                                                     regarding adviser recordkeeping EXCEPT
                                                     A. the IA must keep records of transactions made for its own account as
                                                        well as the account of investment adviser representatives to lessen the
                                                        likelihood of scalping
                                                     B. computer-generated records may be stored in that format
                                                     C. client account records must be maintained, including a list of rec­
                                                        ommendations made
                                                     D. records must be maintained for a period of 2 years from the end of the
                                                        fiscal year in which the last entry was made

                                                2.   An investment adviser registered in State G is obligated to maintain certain
                                                     books and records as specified by the Uniform Securities Act. Which of the
                                                     following statements regarding adviser recordkeeping is NOT true?
                                                     A. Records originally created on computer may be stored in electronic
                                                        media.
                                                     B. Records are subject to surprise audits by the State G Administrator.
                                                     C. Written records may be reduced to microfilm.
                                                     D. Records must be kept for six years.




                              !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT             You will need to remember that the record retention requirement for invest-
                                                ment advisers is five years while that for broker-dealers is three years.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 191                                                                                                                   7/15/2016 2:02:51 PM
     192        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




             3. 9            INVESTMENT ADVISER CODE OF ETHICS
                                     There are some additional recordkeeping requirements under federal law because of
                                 the need for federal covered advisers to institute a code of ethics. This text will include
                                 the most testable items relating to that code. Rule 204A‑1, Investment Adviser Code of
                                 Ethics, requires:
                                 ■■ a copy of the investment adviser’s code of ethics adopted and implemented pursuant
                                     to the Investment Advisers Act of 1940;
                                 ■■ a record of any violation of the code of ethics and of any action taken as a result of
                                     the violation;
                                 ■■ a record of all written acknowledgments, as required by the code of ethics rule, for
                                     each person who is currently, or within the past five years was, a supervised person of
                                     the investment adviser; and
                                 ■■ each adviser’s code of ethics to require an adviser’s access persons (defined below) to
                                     periodically report their personal securities transactions and holdings to the adviser’s
                                     chief compliance officer or other designated persons. The code of ethics must also
                                     require the adviser to review those reports. Reviewing these reports will allow advisers
                                     as well as the SEC’s examination staff to identify improper trades or patterns of trading
                                     by access persons.


             3. 9. 1             PERSONAL TRADING PROCEDURES
                                    Advisory firms should include the following elements, or address the following issues,
                                 when crafting their procedures for employees’ personal securities trading:
                                 ■■ Prior written approval before access persons can place a personal securities transaction
                                    (i.e., preclearance)
                                 ■■ Maintenance of lists of issuers of securities that the advisory firm is analyzing or recom-
                                    mending for client transactions, and prohibitions on personal trading in securities of
                                    those issuers
                                 ■■ Maintenance of restricted lists of issuers about which the advisory firm has inside
                                    information, and prohibitions on any trading (personal or for clients) in securities of
                                    those issuers
                                 ■■ Reminders that investment opportunities must be offered first to clients before the
                                    adviser or its employees may act on them, and procedures to implement this principle

                                      There are several exceptions where access persons may be permitted to trade in securi-
                                 ties, such as when the person is participating in a DRIP (and does not alter the program to
                                 take advantage of the IA’s recommendations or other information), but it is unlikely that
                                 these will be tested.


                   3. 9. 1. 1         Access Person
                                     An access person is any of the adviser’s supervised persons who (1) has access to
                                 nonpublic information regarding any clients’ purchase or sale of securities, or nonpublic
                                 information regarding the portfolio holdings of any reportable fund, or (2) is involved in
                                 making securities recommendations to clients, or who has access to such recommenda-




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 192                                                                                                        7/15/2016 2:02:51 PM
                                                         Session 3   Federal and State Regulation of Investment Advisers and Their Representatives      193




                                     tions that are nonpublic. If providing investment advice is the adviser’s primary business,
                                     all of the firm’s directors, officers and partners are presumed to be access persons.
                                          The following records are required under Rule 204A-1, Investment Adviser Code of
                                     Ethics:
                                     ■■ A record of each report made by an access person
                                     ■■ A record of the names of persons who are currently, or within the past five years were,
                                          access persons of the investment adviser
                                     ■■ A record of any decision, and the reasons supporting the decision, to approve the
                                          acquisition of securities by access persons, for at least five years after the end of the
                                          fiscal year in which the approval is granted



                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                          Long before this Code of Ethics was promulgated, NASAA had its version,
                                                     now titled the NASAA Model Rule on Unethical Business Practices of Investment
                                                     Advisers, Investment Adviser Representatives and Federal Covered Advisers.
                                                     Many of those practices will be covered later in this session and the entire model
                                                     rule is included as Appendix B to this manual. It is critical that you study that ap-
                                                     pendix—many questions on the exam are pulled directly from it.




                   3. 10         BROCHURE RULE
                                         As mentioned earlier, the Form ADV Part 2 is a disclosure document that, under
                                     state and federal securities laws, is required to be given to clients. On July 28, 2010, the
                                     Securities and Exchange Commission adopted amendments to Part 2 of Form ADV and
                                     related rules that require investment advisers registered under the Investment Advisers
                                     Act of 1940 to provide new and prospective clients with a brochure and brochure supple-
                                     ments written in plain English.
                                         The new Part 2 consists of the following three parts:
                                     ■■ Part 2A of Form ADV: Firm Brochure
                                     ■■ Part 2A Appendix 1 of Form ADV: Wrap Fee Program Brochure
                                     ■■ Part 2B of Form ADV: Brochure Supplement (describes certain supervised persons)

                                         Under SEC and similar state rules, investment advisers are required to deliver to cli-
                                     ents and prospective clients a brochure disclosing information about the firm. They also
                                     may be required to deliver a brochure supplement disclosing information about one or
                                     more of their supervised persons. Part 2 of Form ADV sets out the minimum required
                                     disclosure that the brochure (Part 2A for a firm brochure, or Appendix 1 for a wrap fee
                                     program brochure) and brochure supplements (Part 2B) must contain. Here are some of
                                     the key points of which you should be aware:
                                     ■■ Narrative Format. Part 2 of Form ADV consists of a series of items that contain dis-
                                         closure requirements for the firm’s brochure and any required supplements. The items
                                         require narrative responses. The IA must respond to each item in Part 2. They must
                                         include the heading for each item provided by Part 2 immediately preceding their
                                         response to that item and provide responses in the same order as the items appear in
                                         Part 2. If an item does not apply to their business, they must indicate that item is not




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 193                                                                                                                       7/15/2016 2:02:51 PM
     194        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                      applicable. There are 18 items on the ADV Part 2 (with a 19th one for state registered
                                      advisers only). Remember, this is for clients to use to understand what the IA does so
                                      the information disclosed relates to the way the IA operates the business. Some of the
                                      items include
                                      —— a description of the types of advisory services provided,
                                      —— fees and compensation,
                                      —— methods of analysis, investment strategies, and risk of loss,
                                      —— disciplinary information,
                                      —— how you select or recommend broker-dealers for client transactions,
                                      —— custody practices; and
                                    —— investment discretion.
                                 ■■ Plain English. The items in Part 2 of Form ADV are designed to promote effective
                                    communication between the firm and their clients. The brochure and supplements
                                    must be written in plain English, taking into consideration the clients’ level of finan-
                                    cial sophistication. Specifically, the SEC states that the brochure should be concise
                                    and direct. In drafting the brochure and brochure supplements, the IA should: (1) use
                                    short sentences; (2) use definite, concrete, everyday words; (3) use active voice; (4) use
                                    tables or bullet lists for complex material, whenever possible; (5) avoid legal jargon
                                    or highly technical business terms unless you explain them or you believe that your
                                    clients will understand them; and (6) avoid multiple negatives. The brochure should
                                    discuss any conflicts the adviser has or is reasonably likely to have and practices in
                                    which it engages or is reasonably likely to engage. If a conflict arises or the adviser
                                    decides to engage in a practice that it has not disclosed, supplemental disclosure must
                                    be provided to clients to obtain their consent. If the IA has a conflict or engages in a
                                    practice with respect to some (but not all) types or classes of clients, advice, or trans-
                                    actions, such should be indicated rather than disclosing that the firm may have the
                                    conflict or engage in the practice.
                                 ■■ Disclosure Obligations as a Fiduciary. Under federal and state law, IAs act in a fiduciary
                                    capacity and must make full disclosure to their clients of all material facts relating to
                                    the advisory relationship. As a fiduciary, they also must seek to avoid conflicts of inter-
                                    est with their clients, and, at a minimum, make full disclosure of all material conflicts
                                    of interest between them and their clients that could affect the advisory relationship.
                                 ■■ Full and Truthful Disclosure. Obviously, all information in the brochure and brochure
                                    supplements must be true and may not omit any material facts.
                                 ■■ Filing. The investment adviser must file the brochure(s) (and amendments) through
                                    the IARD system. If the IA is federal covered or in the process of registering with
                                    the SEC, it is not required to file the brochure supplements through the IARD or
                                    otherwise. However, a copy of the supplements must be preserved and made available
                                    to SEC staff upon request. If the IA is registered with or is in the process of register-
                                    ing with one or more state securities authorities, a copy of the brochure supplement
                                    (Part 2B) must be filed for each supervised person doing business in that state.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 194                                                                                                        7/15/2016 2:02:51 PM
                                                         Session 3   Federal and State Regulation of Investment Advisers and Their Representatives      195




                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                           Only in the case of state registered investment advisers is it required to file
                                                      the brochure supplements. If you think about it, it makes sense because virtually
                                                      all of the supervised persons described in the supplements are investment adviser
                                                      representatives and they are always registered on a state level only, not with the
                                                      SEC.

                                        The cover page of the brochure must state the name, business address, contact infor-
                                     mation, website address (if there is one), and the date of the brochure. Furthermore, the
                                     cover page of the brochure must state the following (or other clear and concise language
                                     conveying the same information) and identify the document as a brochure:

                                              This brochure provides information about the qualifications and business practices of
                                         [firm name]. If you have any questions about the contents of this brochure, please contact
                                         us at [telephone number and/or email address]. The information in this brochure has not
                                         been approved or verified by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission or by
                                         any state securities authority.

                                           Additional information about [firm name] also is available on the SEC’s website at
                                         www.adviserinfo.sec.gov.


                   3. 10. 1 BROCHURE SUPPLEMENT DISCLOSING INDIVIDUAL
                            ADVISORY PERSONNEL
                                          As has been mentioned earlier, Part 2B is a brochure supplement that must con-
                                     tain certain information about “advisory personnel on whom clients rely for investment
                                     advice.” The brochure supplement is also a narrative format in plain English and includes
                                     six required disclosure categories:
                                     ■■ Cover page identifying the supervised person (or persons) covered by the supplement
                                          as well as the advisory firm
                                     ■■ Educational background and business experience, including disclosing if the super-
                                          vised person has no high school education, no formal education after high school, or
                                          no business background
                                     ■■ Disciplinary information about material events within the past 10 years, although the
                                          SEC says that even if more than 10 years have passed since the date of the event, you
                                          must disclose the event if it is so serious that it remains currently material to a client’s
                                          or prospective client’s evaluation
                                     ■■ Other business activities, including disclosing if the supervised person receives com-
                                          missions, bonuses, or other compensation based on the sale of securities or other
                                          investment products, including as a broker-dealer or registered representative (agent),
                                          and including distribution or service (trail) fees from the sale of mutual funds
                                     ■■ Additional compensation beyond that paid by the client (such as a sales award or
                                          other prize)
                                     ■■ Supervision, including providing the name, title, and telephone number of the indi-
                                          vidual responsible for supervising the supervised person’s advisory activities on behalf
                                          of the firm




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 195                                                                                                                       7/15/2016 2:02:51 PM
     196        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                   3. 10. 1. 1 Supervised Persons Included in the Brochure Supplement
                                     The investment adviser must prepare a brochure supplement for the following super-
                                 vised persons:
                                 ■■ Any supervised person who formulates investment advice for a client and has direct
                                     client contact
                                 ■■ Any supervised person who has discretionary authority over a client’s assets, even if
                                     the supervised person has no direct client contact



                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         No supplement is required for a supervised person who has no direct client
                                                    contact and has discretionary authority over a client’s assets only as part of a
                                                    team. In addition, if discretionary advice is provided by a team comprised of more
                                                    than five supervised persons, brochure supplements need only be provided for
                                                    the five supervised persons with the most significant responsibility for the day-to-
                                                    day discretionary advice provided to the client.



             3. 10. 2 WRAP FEE PROGRAMS
                                     The rules on disclosure are somewhat different for wrap fee programs. A wrap fee pro-
                                 gram is a program under which a client is charged a specified fee, or fees, not based directly
                                 on transactions in a client’s account, for invest­ment advisory services (which may include
                                 portfolio management or advice concerning the selection of other investment advisers)
                                 and for execution of client transactions.
                                     Any registered investment adviser compensated under a wrap fee program for spon-
                                 soring, organizing, or administering the program, or for selecting, or providing advice to
                                 clients regarding the selection of, other investment advisers in the program, does not use
                                 the normal brochure or Part 2A of the ADV. Instead, that adviser furnishes clients and
                                 prospective clients Part 2A, Appendix 1.
                                     If the investment adviser sponsors a wrap fee program, it must deliver a wrap fee pro-
                                 gram brochure to their wrap fee clients. The disclosure requirements for preparing a wrap
                                 fee program brochure appear in Part 2A, Appendix 1 of Form ADV. If the entire advisory
                                 business is sponsoring wrap fee programs, the firm does not need to prepare a firm brochure
                                 separate from the wrap fee program brochure(s). In other words, if all the IA does is spon-
                                 sor wrap fee programs, it must prepare and deliver a completed Part 2A, Appendix 1, but
                                 not a Part 2A.
                                     If the investment adviser sponsors more than one wrap fee program, it may prepare
                                 a single wrap fee program brochure describing all the wrap fee programs sponsored, or it
                                 may prepare separate wrap fee program brochures that describe one or more of its wrap fee
                                 programs. If it prepares separate brochures, each brochure must state that it sponsors other
                                 wrap fee programs and must explain how the client can obtain brochures for the other
                                 programs.
                                     If the firm provides portfolio management services to clients in wrap fee programs
                                 that it does not sponsor, it must deliver the normal brochure prepared in accordance with
                                 Part 2A (not Appendix 1) to its wrap fee clients. It also must deliver to these clients any
                                 brochure supplements required by Part 2B of Form ADV.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 196                                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:02:51 PM
                                                 Session 3   Federal and State Regulation of Investment Advisers and Their Representatives      197




                                 However, if a wrap fee program that you sponsor has multiple sponsors and another
                             sponsor creates and delivers to your wrap fee program clients a wrap fee program brochure
                             that includes all the information required in your wrap brochure, you do not have to create
                             or deliver a separate wrap fee program brochure.
                                 Some of the required disclosures required under Appendix 1 include:
                             ■■ a statement on the cover page of the wrap fee program brochure must state the follow-
                                 ing (or other clear and concise language conveying the same information) and identify
                                 the document as a wrap fee program brochure:

                                      This wrap fee program brochure provides information about the qualifications and
                                 business practices of [firm name]. If you have any questions about the contents of this
                                 brochure, please contact us at [telephone number and/or email address]. The information
                                 in this brochure has not been approved or verified by the United States Securities and Ex-
                                 change Commission or by any state securities authority.

                                     Additional information about [firm name] also is available on the SEC’s website at
                                www.adviserinfo.sec.gov.
                             ■■ the amount of the wrap fee charged for the program;
                             ■■ whether the fees are negotiable;
                             ■■ the portion of the total fee paid to persons providing advice to clients regarding the
                                purchase or sale of specific securities under the program;
                             ■■ the services provided under the program, including the types of portfolio management
                                services;
                             ■■ a statement that the program may cost the client more or less than purchasing these
                                services separately;
                             ■■ a description of the nature of any fees that the client may pay in addition to the wrap
                                fee;
                             ■■ if the person recommending the wrap fee program to the client receives compensation
                                as a result of the client’s participation in the program, disclose this fact
                                 —— explain, if applicable, that the amount of this compensation may be more than
                                    what the person would receive if the client participated in the firm’s other programs
                                    or paid separately for investment advice, brokerage, and other services, or
                                —— explain that the person, therefore, may have a financial incentive to recommend
                                     the wrap fee program over other programs or services;
                             ■■ if a wrap fee program imposes any requirements to open or maintain an account,
                                such as a minimum account size, disclose these requirements—if there is a minimum
                                amount for assets placed with each portfolio manager as well as a minimum account
                                size for participation in the wrap fee program, disclose and explain these requirements;
                             ■■ describe how portfolio managers are selected and reviewed, the basis for recommend-
                                ing or selecting portfolio managers for particular clients, and the criteria for replac-
                                ing or recommending the replacement of portfolio managers for the program and for
                                particular clients;
                             ■■ disclose whether any of the firm’s related persons act as a portfolio manager for a wrap
                                fee program described in the wrap fee program brochure
                                 —— explain the conflicts of interest faced because of this arrangement and describe how
                                    these conflicts of interest are addressed,




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 197                                                                                                               7/15/2016 2:02:51 PM
     198        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                      —— disclose whether related person portfolio managers are subject to the same selection
                                         and review as the other portfolio managers that participate in the wrap fee program,
                                         or
                                    —— if they are not, describe how related person portfolio managers are selected and
                                        reviewed;
                                 ■■ describe the information about clients that is communicated to the clients’ portfolio
                                    managers and how often or under what circumstances updated information is pro-
                                    vided;
                                 ■■ explain any restrictions placed on clients’ ability to contact and consult with their
                                    portfolio managers; and
                                 ■■ state registered investment advisers must describe any relationship or arrangement
                                    that they or any of their management persons have with any issuer of securities that is
                                    not already listed in Part 2A.



                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                         It is generally agreed that “buy and hold” clients are not suitable for a wrap
                                                    fee account because they don’t do enough trading to benefit from the fact that
                                                    commissions are included in the program fee.



             3. 10. 3 BROCHURE DELIVERY REQUIREMENTS
                                     Both federal and state registered advisers must prepare and deliver a brochure to
                                 their clients. If the question does not specify federal or state registered (or refer to the
                                 Investment Advisers Act of 1940 or the USA), you should assume they are asking about a
                                 state registered adviser. It is, after all, NASAA’s exam.


                   3. 10. 3. 1 Delivery Requirements for SEC Registered Advisers
                                      A firm brochure must be delivered to each client. It must be delivered even if the advi-
                                 sory agreement with the client is oral (as we will learn, under federal law, contracts may be
                                 oral or in writing; under state law, they must be in writing).
                                      The firm brochure must be given to each client before or at the time an advisory
                                 agreement is entered into with that client. Thereafter, each year, within 120 days of
                                 the end of the fiscal year, a free, updated brochure must be delivered to each client that
                                 either includes a summary of material changes or is accompanied by a summary of mate-
                                 rial changes, or alternatively, it would be permitted to deliver to each client a summary
                                 of material changes that includes an offer to provide a copy of the updated brochure and
                                 information on how a client may obtain the brochure.



                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                        If there are no material changes, then nothing—not the brochure nor the
                                                    brochure supplement, nor the summary—is required to be sent.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 198                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:02:51 PM
                                                   Session 3   Federal and State Regulation of Investment Advisers and Their Representatives      199




                                    Although, as we will see below, the brochure must be updated promptly when some-
                                thing becomes materially inaccurate, the only time that an interim amendment must be
                                delivered to clients is when there is a disciplinary action. This interim amendment can be
                                in the form of a document describing the material facts relating to the amended disciplin-
                                ary event.


                        3. 10. 3. 2 Delivery Requirements for State Registered Advisers
                                    The brochure delivery requirements for state registered advisers are essentially the
                                same as that for covered advisers with one very important exception. Under the NASAA
                                Model Rule on adviser brochures, advisers are required to deliver the brochure to the cli-
                                ent at least 48 hours before entering into an advisory contract or at the time of entering
                                into an advisory contract, if the advisory client has the right to terminate the contract
                                without penalty within five business days after entering into the contract. Some advisers
                                charge a startup or setup fee. Any new client who does not receive a brochure at least 48
                                hours before entering into an advisory agreement may terminate the agreement and be
                                refunded the setup fee. However, it would not be considered a penalty for the adviser to
                                make a pro rata charge for management services rendered during that five-business-day
                                period.


                        3. 10. 3. 3 Delivery of the Brochure Supplements
                                    Initially and annually, the investment adviser must deliver to a client the brochure
                                supplements for each supervised person who provides advisory services to that client.
                                However, there are three categories of clients to whom the IA is not required to deliver
                                supplements.
                                ■■ Clients to whom the IA is not required to deliver a firm brochure (Part 2A) or a wrap
                                    fee program brochure (Appendix 1 to Part 2A). The logic here is that because the
                                    supplement is a supplement to the brochure, if there is no brochure, why would there
                                    be a supplement?
                                ■■ Clients who receive only impersonal investment advice, even if they receive a firm
                                    brochure. An example of this would include those paying $500 or more per year for a
                                    subscription.
                                ■■ Individual clients who are any executive officers, directors, trustees, general partners,
                                    or people serving in a similar capacity, of that firm; or any employees of that firm
                                    (other than employees performing solely clerical, secretarial or administrative func-
                                    tions) who, in connection with their regular functions or duties, participate in the
                                    investment activities of that firm and have been performing such functions or duties
                                    for at least 12 months.


                        3. 10. 3. 4 Exemptions from the Brochure Rule
                                   There are two exemptions under both state and federal law from the delivery require-
                                ments of the rule.
                                ■■ Contracts with a registered investment company are exempted. Section 15 (not test-
                                   able) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 requires investment advisers to furnish
                                   information to the board of directors of a registered investment company to enable the




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 199                                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:02:51 PM
     200        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                    board to evaluate the terms of the proposed contract. As long as the contract meets
                                    those requirements, the SEC thought it unnecessary to require the adviser to deliver a
                                    brochure to the investment company.
                                 ■■ Advisers entering into a contract providing solely for imper­sonal advisory services—
                                    that is, publishers of market letters—are exempt from the rule’s initial delivery require-
                                    ments. If the annual charge for this service is $500 or greater, delivery of the brochure
                                    must be offered with the same two timing options listed above.


             3. 10. 4 UPDATING THE BROCHURE
                                    The brochure must be updated:
                                 ■■ each year at the time of filing the annual updating amendment; and
                                 ■■ promptly, whenever any information in the brochure becomes materially inaccurate.

                                      It is not required to update the brochure between annual amendments solely because
                                 the amount of client assets under management has changed or because the fee schedule
                                 has changed. However, if the brochure is being updated for a separate reason in between
                                 annual amendments (a disciplinary action, some other material change, and so forth),
                                 and the amount of client assets under management listed in the brochure the fee schedule
                                 listed has become materially inaccurate, the IA should update that item(s) as part of the
                                 interim amendment.
                                      If, when preparing the annual updating amendment, there are no material changes
                                 to the previous brochure, and there have been no interim amendments making material
                                 changes to the brochure that was filed with the previous year’s annual updating amend-
                                 ment, a summary of material changes does not have to be prepared (because there is noth-
                                 ing to say). Read what the SEC has to say about that: “If you do not have to prepare a
                                 summary of material changes, you do not have to deliver a summary of material changes
                                 or a brochure to your existing clients that year. If you are a state-registered adviser, you
                                 should contact the appropriate state securities authorities to determine whether you must
                                 make an annual offer of the brochure.” That means that a new brochure doesn’t even have
                                 to be offered (in the case of federal covered advisers) if there has been no material change.
                                      Try to follow these next two points.
                                 ■■ Federal covered advisers are required to file amendments to their brochure electroni-
                                      cally through IARD. However, they are not required to file amendments to the bro-
                                      chure supplements with the SEC, but must maintain a copy of them in their files.
                                 ■■ State-registered advisers are required to file amendments to their brochure and amend-
                                      ments to their brochure supplement with the appropriate state securities authorities
                                      through IARD.

                                    Why the difference? I think it just makes it easier for NASAA to write a hard test
                                 question.
                                    Finally, if the IA has no clients to whom delivery of a brochure is required, they don’t
                                 have to prepare one.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 200                                                                                                       7/15/2016 2:02:51 PM
                                              Session 3   Federal and State Regulation of Investment Advisers and Their Representatives      201




                             Q
                        QUICK QUIZ 3.J   1.   With regard to the brochure rule of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940,
                                              which of the following are exempt from the delivery requirements of that
                                              rule?
                                              A. An adviser whose only clients are registered investment companies
                                              B. An adviser whose only clients are insurance companies
                                              C. An adviser who only provides impersonal advisory services at an annual
                                                 charge of less than $500
                                              D. All of the above

                                         2.   With regard to a federal covered investment adviser, which of the following
                                              statements regarding the Form ADV Part 2A is CORRECT?
                                              A. It must be delivered no later than 48 hours before entering into an advi-
                                                 sory contract.
                                              B. It must be delivered no later than upon receipt of a client’s funds.
                                              C. It must accompany the ADV Part 1A when being delivered to new
                                                 clients.
                                              D. An investment adviser must deliver to each client, a copy of the most
                                                 recent ADV Part 2A no later than at the time of entering into the advi-
                                                 sory agreement.

                                         3.   Under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, an investment adviser is
                                              required to
                                                I. submit justification for continued registration to the SEC if their client
                                                   base drops below 15 individuals for any consecutive 12-month period
                                               II. disclose, in their brochure, the number of clients they serve
                                              III. disclose, in their brochure supplements, the educational background,
                                                   business experience, and disciplinary history (if any) of the supervised
                                                   persons who provide advisory services to the clients
                                               A. I and II
                                               B. I and III
                                               C. II and III
                                               D. III only

                                         4.   Smith & Jones is a registered investment adviser under the Investment
                                              Advisers Act of 1940. It has 1,000 active clients. The firm maintains custody
                                              for 200 of their clients and exercises investment discretion for 400 of them.
                                              When preparing its brochure for annual distribution, it would need to include
                                              an audited balance sheet prepared by an independent accountant for
                                              A. the 200 clients for whom it maintains custody
                                              B. the 200 clients for whom it maintains custody, as well as the 400 for
                                                 whom it exercises investment discretion
                                              C. all of its clients because it is an integral part of its brochure once it main-
                                                 tains custody for even 1 client
                                              D. none of its clients because the balance sheet requirement is only required
                                                 when the firm collects fees in excess of $1,200, 6 or more months in
                                                 advance




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 201                                                                                                            7/15/2016 2:02:52 PM
     202        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                                    5.   Under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, a registered investment adviser
                                                         who provides investment advisory services to individuals must
                                                         A.   have a minimum net worth of $100,000
                                                         B.   limit the giving of advice to securities listed on major exchanges
                                                         C.   avoid maintaining control or custody of client funds and securities
                                                         D.   provide each new client with a disclosure statement or brochure no later
                                                              than when entering into the advisory agreement




             3. 11           RULES ON CUSTODY OF FUNDS AND SECURITIES
                                     In April of 2004, compliance with new SEC rules regarding an investment adviser’s
                                 custody of customer’s funds and securities went into effect. NASAA published its rules
                                 on custody later that same month. For the most part, the rules are identical. Our text will
                                 focus on the rule stated in the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and, where the NASAA
                                 model rule differs, a notation will be made.

                                     Safekeeping required. If you are an investment adviser registered or required to be
                                 registered under either federal or state law, it is a fraudulent, deceptive, or manipulative
                                 act, practice, or course of business within the meaning of the act for you to have custody
                                 of client funds or securities unless the following conditions are met.
                                 ■■ You have a qualified custodian. A qualified custodian maintains those funds and secu-
                                     rities in a separate account for each client under that client’s name, or in accounts that
                                     contain only your clients’ funds and securities, under your name as agent or trustee for
                                     the clients.
                                 ■■ You give notice to your clients. If you open an account with a qualified custodian on
                                     your client’s behalf, either under the client’s name or under your name as agent, you
                                     must notify the client in writing of the qualified custodian’s name and address and the
                                     manner in which the funds or securities are maintained, promptly when the account
                                     is opened and following any changes, such as a change in the location of the assets, to
                                     this information.
                                 ■■ Account statements are delivered to clients, either:
                                      —— by qualified custodian: you have a reasonable basis for believing that the qualified
                                         custodian sends an account statement, at least quarterly, to each of your clients for
                                         which it maintains funds or securities, identifying the amount of funds and of each
                                         security in the account at the end of the period and setting forth all transactions in
                                         the account during that period; or
                                      —— by adviser: you send a quarterly account statement to each of your clients for whom
                                         you have custody of funds or securities, identifying the amount of funds and of each
                                         security of which you have custody at the end of the period and setting forth all
                                         transactions during that period. An independent public accountant must verify
                                         all of those funds and securities by actual examination at least once during each
                                         calendar year, at a time that is chosen by the accountant without prior notice or
                                         announcement to you and that is irregular from year to year, and file a copy of the
                                         auditor’s report and financial statements with the SEC/Administrator stating that
                                         it has examined the funds and securities and describing the nature and extent of
                                         the examination: If the independent public accountant finds any material discrep-




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 202                                                                                                               7/15/2016 2:02:52 PM
                                                 Session 3   Federal and State Regulation of Investment Advisers and Their Representatives      203




                                     ancies during the course of the examination, the accountant must promptly notify
                                     the SEC/Administrator.
                              ■■ Under the NASAA model rule, in the absence of a rule prohibiting custody, the
                                 investment adviser notifies the Administrator promptly in writing on Form ADV that
                                 the investment adviser has or may have custody.
                                 Exceptions to this rule. Some exceptions include the following.
                              ■■ Shares of mutual funds—with respect to shares of an open-end company (mutual
                                 fund), you may use the mutual fund’s transfer agent in lieu of a qualified custodian
                                 since the mutual fund’s transfer agent maintains the securities for the client on the
                                 mutual fund’s books.
                              ■■ Registered investment companies—you need not comply with the rule with respect
                                 to clients that are registered investment companies. Registered investment companies
                                 and their advisers must comply with the strict requirements of the Investment Com-
                                 pany Act of 1940, and the custody rules adopted under that act.

                                  Definitions. For the purposes of this rule custody means holding, directly or indi-
                              rectly, client funds or securities, or having any authority to obtain possession of them.
                              Custody also includes:
                              ■■ possession of client funds or securities (but not of checks drawn by clients and made
                                  payable to third parties) unless you receive them inadvertently and you return them
                                  to the sender promptly but in any case within three business days (might say 72 hours
                                  on the exam) of receiving them: therefore, you should remember that the SEC never
                                  considers the receipt of a third-party check to constitute custody, while the Admin-
                                  istrator will if the check is not sent on within three business days (NASAA—Under
                                  state law, the receipt of checks drawn by clients and made payable to unrelated third
                                  parties is considered custody unless forwarded to the third party within three business
                                  days of receipt and the adviser maintains a record of the event);
                              ■■ any arrangement (including a general power of attorney) under which you are autho-
                                  rized or permitted to withdraw client funds or securities maintained with a custodian
                                  upon your instruction to the custodian; and
                              ■■ any capacity (such as general partner of a limited partnership, managing member of a
                                  limited liability company, or a comparable position for another type of pooled invest-
                                  ment vehicle, or trustee of a trust) that gives you or your supervised person legal own-
                                  ership of or access to client funds or securities.

                                  A qualified custodian is a bank or savings association that has deposits insured by the
                              Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, a regis-
                              tered broker-dealer holding the client assets in customer accounts, and a foreign financial
                              institution that customarily holds financial assets for its customers, provided that the for-
                              eign financial institution keeps the advisory clients’ assets in customer accounts segregated
                              from its proprietary assets.



                             !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                  Most investment advisers do not take custody and, therefore, are unable to
                                              accept direct delivery of customer securities or funds except under the limited
                                              conditions described in this section. However, broker-dealers are not constrained
                                              by this rule; they are only required to provide receipts anytime they accept cus-
                                              tomer assets.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 203                                                                                                               7/15/2016 2:02:52 PM
     204        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                        There are two major benefits to an investment adviser using a qualified
                                                    custodian.
                                                         ■■ Since the custodian is sending the quarterly reports to the client, that
                                                            administrative burden is lifted from the investment adviser.

                                                         ■■ There is no requirement for a surprise annual audit by an independent
                                                            accountant.


                                     The NASAA model rule also adds language dealing with direct fee deduction. An
                                 adviser who has custody because the adviser’s fees are directly deducted from client’s
                                 accounts must also provide the following safeguards.
                                 ■■ Written authorization—the adviser must have written authorization from each client
                                     to deduct advisory fees from the accounts held with the qualified custodian.
                                 ■■ Notice of fee deduction—each time a fee is directly deducted from a client account,
                                     the adviser must concurrently:
                                      —— send the qualified custodian notice of the amount of the fee to be deducted from
                                         the client’s account, and
                                    —— send the client an invoice itemizing the fee. Itemization includes the formula used
                                       to calculate the fee, the amount of assets under management the fee is based on,
                                       and the time period covered by the fee.
                                 ■■ Notice of safeguards—the investment adviser notifies the Administrator in writing on
                                    Form ADV that the adviser intends to use the safeguards provided above.



                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         If the above three requirements are satisfied, then the IA who is only con-
                                                    sidered to have custody because of direct deduction of fees will receive a waiver
                                                    from the financial requirements for the net worth and bonding requirements
                                                    described earlier in this session (usually $35,000). In addition, just as with the IA
                                                    who uses a qualified custodian, they will be relieved of the obligation to file an
                                                    audited balance sheet.




                             *
                         EXAMPLE                         Let’s look at three examples of custody given by the SEC.
                                                         ■■ An adviser that holds clients’ stock certificates or cash, even temporarily,
                                                            puts those assets at risk of misuse or loss. The rule, however, expressly
                                                            excludes inadvertent receipt by the adviser of client funds or securities,
                                                            so long as the adviser returns them to the sender within three business
                                                            days of receiving them. The rule does not permit advisers to forward
                                                            clients’ funds and securities without having custody, although advisers
                                                            may certainly assist clients in such matters. In addition, the rule makes
                                                            clear that an adviser’s possession of a check drawn by the client and
                                                            made payable to a third party is not possession of client funds for




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 204                                                                                                                  7/15/2016 2:02:52 PM
                                              Session 3   Federal and State Regulation of Investment Advisers and Their Representatives      205




                                                    purposes of the custody definition. (Note, this is only true under NASAA
                                                    rules if forwarded within three business days).

                                              ■■ An adviser has custody if it has the authority to withdraw funds or
                                                 securities from a client’s account. An adviser with power of attorney to
                                                 sign checks on a client’s behalf, to withdraw funds or securities from
                                                 a client’s account, or to dispose of client funds or securities for any
                                                 purpose other than authorized trading has access to the client’s assets.
                                                 An adviser authorized to deduct advisory fees or other expenses directly
                                                 from a client’s account has access to, and therefore has custody of, the
                                                 client funds and securities in that account. These advisers might not
                                                 have possession of client assets, but they have the authority to obtain
                                                 possession.

                                              ■■ An adviser has custody if it acts in any capacity that gives the adviser
                                                 legal ownership of, or access to, the client funds or securities. One
                                                 common instance is a firm that acts as both general partner and
                                                 investment adviser to a limited partnership. By virtue of its position as
                                                 general partner, the adviser generally has authority to dispose of funds
                                                 and securities in the limited partnership’s account and thus has custody
                                                 of client assets.




                             Q
                        QUICK QUIZ 3.K   1.   Which of the following advisers would be deemed to have custody of cus­
                                              tomer funds or securities as defined in the Investment Advisers Act of 1940?
                                              A. The adviser receives the proceeds of sales in the customer’s account.
                                              B. The adviser receives a fee of $1,500 as a prepayment for the next con-
                                                 tract year.
                                              C. The adviser has investment discretion over the account.
                                              D. All of the above.

                                         2.   Which of the following state registered investment advisers would be
                                              required to furnish an audited balance sheet as part of its disclosure
                                              statement?
                                                I. The adviser’s fee is automatically debited from the client’s account.
                                               II. The adviser receives its fee each year in advance in the amount of $900.
                                              III. The client’s securities are held by a broker-dealer with whom the adviser
                                                   has an affiliate relationship.
                                              A.    I and II
                                              B.    I and III
                                              C.    II and III
                                              D.    I, II, and III




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 205                                                                                                            7/15/2016 2:02:52 PM
     206        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                                    3.   An investment adviser registered with the state wishes to take custody of
                                                         client’s funds or securities. Which of the following statements best describes
                                                         NASAA rules regarding notification to the Administrator?
                                                         A. The adviser must supply prompt notification to the Administrator by
                                                            immediately updating its Form ADV.
                                                         B. The adviser must notify the Administrator within 90 days of the end of
                                                            its fiscal year by updating its Form ADV.
                                                         C. If the adviser will be using a qualified custodian, no notification is
                                                            necessary.
                                                         D. Prompt notification to the Administrator is made by the independent
                                                            accounting firm performing the adviser’s annual surprise audit.

                                                    4.   An investment adviser takes custody of client’s funds and securities. Client
                                                         account statements must be sent no less frequently than
                                                         A.     monthly
                                                         B.     quarterly
                                                         C.     semiannually
                                                         D.     annually

                                                    5.   A federal covered investment adviser inadvertently receives securities from
                                                         a client. The custody rules of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 would
                                                         require the adviser to
                                                         A. forward those securities to the qualified custodian within 3 business days
                                                            after receipt
                                                         B. keep those securities in its vault
                                                         C. notify the SEC promptly
                                                         D. return those securities to the sender within 3 business days after receipt

                                                    6.   What type of qualified custodians do NASAA rules permit to hold investment
                                                         advisory clients’ funds or securities?
                                                           I.   FDIC insured banks and savings associations
                                                          II.   Federal covered investment advisers
                                                         III.   Registered broker-dealers
                                                         IV.    Transfer agents for NYSE listed corporations
                                                         A.     I and III
                                                         B.     I and IV
                                                         C.     II and III
                                                         D.     II and IV

                                                    7.   Under the NASAA Model Custody Rules, an investment adviser is deemed to
                                                         have custody of customer funds or securities when
                                                         A. securities inadvertently received are returned to the customer within 3
                                                            business days of receipt
                                                         B. checks made payable to the investment adviser are returned to the cus-
                                                            tomer within 3 business days of receipt
                                                         C. checks made payable to an unrelated third party are returned to the cus-
                                                            tomer within 3 business days of receipt
                                                         D. checks made payable to an unrelated third party are forwarded to that
                                                            third party within 3 business days of receipt




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 206                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:02:52 PM
                                                   Session 3   Federal and State Regulation of Investment Advisers and Their Representatives      207




                                              8.   If an investment adviser registered under the Investment Advisers Act of
                                                   1940 maintains custody of customer funds or securities, which of the follow-
                                                   ing is TRUE?
                                                   A. A surety bond will be required.
                                                   B. The independent public accountant engaged to verify client funds and
                                                      securities must give appropriate notice to the adviser before doing the
                                                      verification.
                                                   C. The adviser must, on an annual basis, provide his clients for whom he
                                                      maintains custody a list of all securities held in custody by the firm.
                                                   D. If the firm changes the location of safekeeping, all affected clients must
                                                      be notified promptly.

                                  Just because an adviser does not maintain custody or require prepayments and is not
                              required to file the balance sheet with the SEC does not mean it has no obligation to
                              maintain true, accurate, and current books.



                             !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT             Although the general rule is that state registered investment advisers hav-
                                              ing custody must maintain a minimum net worth of $35,000 (or an equivalent
                                              surety bond), there are two cases where the net worth/bonding requirements are
                                              waived:
                                                   ■■ Advisers having custody solely due to direct fee deduction and who keep
                                                      the required records and make the required notifications to clients

                                                   ■■ Advisers having custody solely due to advising pooled investment
                                                      vehicles and who keep the required records and make the required
                                                      notifications to clients



                   3. 11. 1 FORM ADV-E
                                   In December 2009, the SEC approved amendments to the custody rule under the
                              Investment Advisers Act of 1940. The amendments, among other things, require certain
                              registered investment advisers that have custody of client funds or securities to undergo an
                              annual surprise examination by an independent public accountant to verify client funds
                              and securities. Form ADV-E is used as a cover page for a certificate of accounting of securi-
                              ties and funds of which the investment adviser has custody (surprise exam report). Form
                              ADV-E contains both information about the adviser and the surprise exam conducted.
                                   The Form ADV-E is filled out by the investment adviser and then submitted along
                              with the surprise examination report or statement by the independent public accountant
                              after a surprise inspection of the adviser.



                             !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                  Filing of the Form ADV-E is required only when the investment adviser,
                                              rather than a qualified custodian, maintains custody of customer funds/securities.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 207                                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:02:52 PM
     208        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




             3. 12           FIDUCIARY RESPONSIBILITIES OF INVESTMENT
                             ADVISERS
                                      Investment advisers are fiduciaries who owe a duty of undivided loyalty to their cli-
                                 ents and must deal fairly and honestly with them. This fiduciary relationship between an
                                 adviser and his client imposes on an adviser an affirmative duty of utmost good faith and
                                 full and fair disclosure, as well as an affirmative obligation to employ reasonable care to
                                 avoid mislead­ing his clients.
                                      Both state and federal law reflect a recognition of the delicate fiduciary nature of an
                                 investment advisory relationship, as well as an intent to eliminate or at least expose all
                                 conflicts of interest that might incline an adviser to render advice that was not disinter­
                                 ested. A key difference between investment advisers and broker-dealers is that, as fiducia-
                                 ries, the former have a defined legal obligation to always place the interests of the client
                                 first.
                                      Although this relationship requires many things to be disclosed, one exception is that
                                 an IAR need not disclose personal transactions that are consistent with those recom-
                                 mended to clients.


             3. 12. 1 DISCLOSURE AND CONSENT
                                     To provide some assurance that the disclosure requirements of the acts will not be
                                 violated, the regulators have recommended that each of the adviser’s advisory clients be
                                 given the written statement (brochure previously described) prepared by the adviser that
                                 makes all appropriate disclosures.
                                     The securities laws do not prohibit a registered investment adviser representative from
                                 being an employee of a registered broker-dealer. However, there would be a duty on the
                                 part of both the broker-dealer and the soliciting advisers to inform advisory clients of their
                                 ability to seek execution of transactions with broker-dealers other than those who have
                                 employed the advisers.
                                     Disclosure must be made to all current clients and to prospective clients regarding
                                 material disciplinary action. The broadest definition of material would include any actions
                                 taken against the firm or management persons by a court or regulatory authority within
                                 the past 10 years. Required disclosure would include the following:
                                 ■■ State or regulatory proceedings in which the adviser or a management person was
                                     found to have violated rules or statutes that led to the denial, suspension, or revoca-
                                     tion of the firm’s or the individual management person’s registration
                                 ■■ Court proceedings, such as a permanent or temporary injunction, against the firm or
                                     management person pertaining to an investment-related activity or any felony
                                 ■■ SRO proceedings in which the adviser or management person caused the business
                                     to lose its registration or the firm or individual was barred, suspended, or expelled, or
                                     a fine in excess of $2,500 or a limitation was placed on the adviser or management
                                     person’s activities

                                     During routine inspections, the regulators review an adviser’s filings with the SEC or
                                 Administrator and other materials provided to clients to ensure that the adviser’s disclo-
                                 sures are accurate, timely, and do not omit material information. Examples of failures to
                                 disclose material information to clients would include the following.
                                 ■■ An adviser fails to disclose all fees that a client would pay in connection with the
                                     advisory contract, including how fees are charged and whether fees are negotiable.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 208                                                                                                        7/15/2016 2:02:52 PM
                                                     Session 3   Federal and State Regulation of Investment Advisers and Their Representatives      209




                               ■■ An adviser fails to disclose its affiliation with a broker-dealer or other securities profes-
                                  sionals or issuers.
                               ■■ If a state registered adviser has discretionary authority or custody over a client’s funds
                                  or securities, or requires prepayment of advisory fees of more than $500 from a client,
                                  six or more months in advance, the adviser fails to disclose a financial condition that
                                  is reasonably likely to impair the ability of the adviser to meet contractual commit-
                                  ments to those clients. In the case of a federal covered adviser, the dollar limit is more
                                  than $1,200.
                               ■■ An adviser may defraud its clients when it fails to use the average price paid when allo-
                                  cating securities to accounts participating in bunched trades and fails to adequately
                                  disclose its allocation policy. This practice violates the act if securities that were pur-
                                  chased at the lowest price or sold at the highest price are allocated to favored clients
                                  without adequate disclosure.
                               ■■ Any material legal action against the adviser must be disclosed to existing clients
                                  promptly. If the action occurred within the past 10 years, it must be disclosed by a state
                                  registered adviser to prospective clients not less than 48 hours before entering into the
                                  contract, or no later than the time of entering into such contract if the client has the
                                  right to terminate the contract without penalty within five business days. In the case
                                  of a federal covered adviser, the “48 hour rule” does not apply; disclosure is part of the
                                  brochure delivered no later than commencing the advisory agreement.




                             Q
                        QUICK QUIZ 3.L          1.   The BJS Advisory Service maintains no custody of customer funds or securi-
                                                     ties, requires no substantial prepayments of fees, and does not have invest-
                                                     ment discretion over clients’ accounts. Which of the following would have to
                                                     be promptly disclosed to clients?
                                                       I. The SEC has entered an order barring the executive vice president of the
                                                          firm from association with any firm in the investment business.
                                                      II. BJS has just been fined $3,500 by the NYSE.
                                                     III. A civil suit has just been filed against BJS by one of its clients alleg­ing
                                                          that BJS made unsuitable recommendations.
                                                     A.    I and II
                                                     B.    I and III
                                                     C.    II and III
                                                     D.    None of the above



                   3. 12. 2 HEDGE CLAUSES
                                    A constant concern of the regulators is any attempt by an investment adviser to waive
                               the implied fiduciary responsibilities inherent in the client/adviser relationship. One of
                               the most common methods of doing so is through the use of the hedge clause. This is not
                               a new issue. In 1951, the SEC addressed it in a release that simply states that “the anti-
                               fraud provisions of the Securities and Exchange Commission statutes are violated by the
                               employment of any legend, hedge clause, or other provision which is likely to lead an
                               investor to believe that he has in any way waived any right of action he may have.” This
                               test is consistent with the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 which states that “any condi-
                               tion, stipulation, or provision binding any person to waive compliance with any provision
                               of this Act or with any rule, regulation or order thereunder shall be void.”




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 209                                                                                                                   7/15/2016 2:02:52 PM
     210        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                      Several recent investment adviser applications filed with the states have contained
                                 advisory contracts with hedge clauses that the Administrator believed would be poten-
                                 tially misleading to clients.
                                      As an example, one state took issue with a contract that stated: “It is understood
                                 that we will extend our best efforts in the supervision of the portfolio, but we assume no
                                 responsibility for action taken or omitted in good faith if negligence, willful or reckless
                                 misconduct, or violation of applicable law is not involved.”
                                      So, here’s the bottom line for the exam. You will be presented with a question or two
                                 containing a statement to the effect of, “the client agrees to waive rule violations by the
                                 IA (or other securities professional).” The answer to choose is the one that states that
                                 “waivers are never permitted.”
                                      This is not to say that the acts prohibit the use of all hedge clauses. For example, the
                                 SEC has not objected to clauses that limit the investment adviser’s liability for losses
                                 caused by conditions and events beyond its control, such as war, strikes, natural disasters,
                                 new government restrictions, market fluctuations, communications disruptions, and so
                                 forth. Such provisions are acceptable since they do not attempt to limit or misstate the
                                 adviser’s fiduciary obligations to its clients; but, it is highly unlikely that one of these
                                 choices will be on your test.




                             Q
                  QUICK QUIZ 3.M                    1.   An investment adviser runs an advertisement in the business section of the
                                                         local newspaper. The ad describes the nature of the firm’s model portfolio
                                                         and indicates that it has outperformed the overall market by 800% over the
                                                         past 10 years, and, therefore, they guarantee that their clients will more than
                                                         keep pace with inflation. At the bottom of the ad, in smaller print is the fol-
                                                         lowing statement: Results are not guaranteed. Past performance is not indic-
                                                         ative of future results. These results are not normal and cannot be expected
                                                         to be repeated. This is an example of a(n)
                                                         A.   properly worded disclaimer
                                                         B.   improper hedge clause
                                                         C.   violation of an investment adviser’s fiduciary responsibility
                                                         D.   wrap fee account

                                                    2.   Which of the following statements regarding the use of a hedge clause by an
                                                         investment adviser is CORRECT?
                                                         A. The adviser’s brochure must always contain at least one hedge clause.
                                                         B. A properly worded hedge clause may be used to minimize the invest-
                                                            ment adviser’s fiduciary responsibility.
                                                         C. A hedge clause that limits the investment adviser’s liability for losses
                                                            caused by conditions and events beyond its control, such as war,
                                                            strikes, and natural disasters, would generally be acceptable to the
                                                            Administrator.
                                                         D. A hedge clause that limits liability to acts done in bad faith or pursuant
                                                            to willful misconduct but also explicitly provides that rights under state
                                                            or federal law cannot be relinquished would generally be acceptable to
                                                            the Administrator.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 210                                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:02:52 PM
                                                    Session 3   Federal and State Regulation of Investment Advisers and Their Representatives      211




                   3. 12. 3 PRINCIPAL OR AGENCY TRANSACTIONS
                                     Under both state and federal law, it is unlawful for any investment adviser, directly
                                or indirectly “acting as principal for his own account, knowingly to sell any security to or
                                purchase any security from a client, or acting as broker for a person other than such cli-
                                ent, knowingly to effect any sale or purchase of any security for the account of such client,
                                without disclosing to such client in writing before the completion of such transaction the
                                capacity in which he is acting and obtaining the consent of the client to such transaction.”
                                The key point here is that the laws impose a prior consent requirement on any adviser that
                                acts as principal in a transaction with a client, or that acts as broker (that is, an agent) in
                                connection with a transaction for, or on behalf of, an advisory client.
                                     In a principal transaction, an adviser, acting for its own account, buys a security from,
                                or sells a security to, the account of a client. In an agency transaction, an adviser arranges
                                a transaction between different advisory clients or between a brokerage customer and an
                                advisory client. Advisory clients can benefit from both types of transactions, depending on
                                the circumstances, by obtaining a more favorable transaction price for the securities being
                                purchased or sold than otherwise available. Principal and agency transactions, however,
                                also may pose the potential for conflicts between the interests of the adviser and those of
                                the client.
                                     The regulators have recognized that both principal and agency transactions create the
                                potential for advisers to engage in self-dealing. Principal transactions, in particular, may
                                lead to abuses such as price manipulation or the placing of unwanted securities into client
                                accounts. When an adviser engages in an agency transaction on behalf of a client, it is
                                primarily the incentive to earn additional compensation that creates the adviser’s conflict
                                of interest. Although recognizing the potential for these abuses, the regulators did not pro-
                                hibit advisers entirely from engaging in all principal and agency transactions with clients.
                                Rather, they chose to address these particular conflicts of interest by imposing a disclosure
                                and client consent requirement.
                                     It is important to remember that:
                                ■■ an adviser may obtain client consent to a principal or agency transaction after execu-
                                     tion, but prior to settlement, of the transaction; and
                                ■■ an adviser is not “acting as broker” within the meaning of the acts if the adviser
                                     receives no compensation (other than its advisory fee) for effecting a particular agency
                                     transaction between advisory clients. It is primarily the incentive to earn additional
                                     compensation that creates the adviser’s conflict of interest when effecting an agency
                                     transaction between advisory clients.



                              !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT               What happens if the investment adviser is also registered as a broker-dealer?
                                                The requirements just described do not apply to any transaction with a customer
                                                of a broker-dealer if such broker-dealer is not acting as an investment adviser in
                                                relation to such transaction. In other words, the transaction is not as a result of a
                                                recommendation from the adviser.


                        3. 12. 3. 1 Time of Consent
                                   As stated, both acts prohibit any adviser from engaging in or effecting a principal or
                                agency transaction with a client without disclosing in writing to the client, “before the




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 211                                                                                                                  7/15/2016 2:02:52 PM
     212        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                 completion of such transaction,” the capacity in which the adviser is acting and obtaining
                                 the client’s consent to the transaction. It has been determined that a securities transac-
                                 tion is completed upon settlement, not upon execution. Implicit in the phrase “before the
                                 completion of such transaction” is the recognition that a securities transaction involves
                                 various stages before it is “complete.” The phrase “completion of such transaction” on its
                                 face would appear to be the point at which all aspects of a securities transaction have come
                                 to an end. That ending point of a transaction is when the actual exchange of securities
                                 and payment occurs, which is known as “settlement.” The date of execution (i.e., the trade
                                 date) marks an earlier point of a securities transaction at which the parties have agreed to
                                 its terms and are contractually obligated to settle the transaction. Thus, an adviser may
                                 comply with the rules either by obtaining client consent prior to execution of a principal
                                 or agency transaction, or after execution but prior to settlement of the transaction.
                                      When soliciting a client’s post-execution, pre-settlement consent to a principal or
                                 agency transaction, an adviser should be able to provide the client with sufficient infor-
                                 mation regarding the transaction, including information regarding pricing, best price, and
                                 final commission charges, to enable the client to make an informed decision to consent to
                                 the transaction. The regulators agree that, if after execution but before settlement of the
                                 transaction, an adviser also provides a client with information that is sufficient to inform
                                 the client of the conflicts of interest faced by the adviser in engaging in the transaction,
                                 then the adviser will have provided the information necessary for the client to make an
                                 informed decision for purposes of the rule.
                                      This consent is required for each transaction of this type. In a 1945 decision, federal
                                 law determined that “blanket” approval is not permitted.



                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         What is really going on here? As stated previously, the function of an invest-
                                                    ment adviser is to be compensated for giving investment advice, not trading
                                                    securities. Buying and selling securities is the job of a broker-dealer. This discus-
                                                    sion deals with the odd case where an investment adviser wears “two hats” as it
                                                    were and, in addition to giving advice, also trades the security.




             3. 13           ADVERTISING
                                      Under both laws, it is unlawful for an adviser to engage in any act, practice, or course of
                                 business that is fraudulent, deceptive, or manipulative. These prohibitions apply to adver-
                                 tising. The USA’s rule on investment adviser advertising merely states that it is unlawful
                                 for any investment adviser to publish, circulate or distribute any advertisement that does
                                 not comply with the rules under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940.
                                      The SEC has defined the term advertisement to include any notice, circular, website,
                                 letter, or other written communication addressed to more than one person, or any notice
                                 or other announcement in any publication or by radio or television, that offers:
                                 ■■ any analysis, report, or publication concerning securities;
                                 ■■ any graph, chart, formula, or other device to be used in making any determination
                                      concerning securities; or
                                 ■■ any other investment advisory service with regard to securities.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 212                                                                                                                  7/15/2016 2:02:52 PM
                                                 Session 3   Federal and State Regulation of Investment Advisers and Their Representatives      213




                                   The term advertisement has generally been broadly construed. For example, an invest-
                              ment adviser’s proposed publication of lists of past securities recommendations for a spe-
                              cific period constitutes an adver­tisement. Similarly, investment advisory material that
                              promotes advisory services for the purpose of inducing potential clients to subscribe to
                              those services is advertising material. In keeping with the changing times, an investment
                              adviser’s website is considered advertising.
                                   The act provides that it is unlawful for an investment adviser to publish, circulate, or
                              distribute any advertisement that:
                              ■■ makes use of testimonials, including any statement of a client’s experience with the
                                   adviser or a client’s endorsement of the adviser (testimonials are prohibited under the
                                   Advisers Act and the NASAA Model Rule considers a “like” on Facebook to probably
                                   be a testimonial);
                              ■■ represents or implies that the adviser has been sponsored, recommended, or approved,
                                   or that its abilities or qualifications have in any respect been passed upon by the SEC
                                   or the Administrator (the SEC has taken the position that the use of the initials
                                   R.I.A. following a name on printed materials would be misleading because, among
                                   other things, it suggests that the person to whom it refers has a level of professional
                                   competence, education, or other special training, when in fact there are no specific
                                   qualifications for becoming a registered investment adviser; the term registered invest-
                                   ment adviser may be used, but not the initials);



                             !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT            In the same manner that the use of the designation, RIA is prohibited, invest-
                                              ment adviser representatives may not use the initials IAR on business cards or any
                                              other literature. Yes, the exam will frequently use IAR, but you can’t. What you
                                              can use on your business card are certain recognized professional or academic
                                              designations (assuming you’ve earned them). Examples would include CPA,
                                              CLU®, CFA®, CFP®, MBA, JD, or PhD.
                              ■■ makes reference to past, specific, profitable recommendations made by the adviser,
                                 without the advertisement setting out a list of all recommendations made by the
                                 adviser, both profitable and unprofitable, within the preceding period of not less than
                                 one year, and cautions the reader that it should not be assumed that recommendations
                                 made in the future will be profitable or will equal the performance of previous recom-
                                 mendations;
                              ■■ represents that any graph, chart, formula or other device can, in and of itself, be used
                                 to determine which securities to buy or sell, or when to buy or sell such securities, or
                                 can assist persons in making those decisions, without the advertisement prominently
                                 disclosing the limitations and the difficulties regarding its use;
                              ■■ represents that a report, analysis, or other service, such as tax preparation, was pro-
                                 vided without charge, when the report, analysis, or other service was provided with
                                 some obligation; or
                              ■■ fails to disclose any ownership position in securities being recommended by the invest-
                                 ment adviser.



                             !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT            Although use of the initials RIA or IAR is unethical, the exam may refer to
                                              investment advisers as IAs and adviser representatives as IARs.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 213                                                                                                               7/15/2016 2:02:52 PM
     214        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                             Q
                  QUICK QUIZ 3.N                    1.   Which of the following statements is(are) TRUE regarding advertising by an
                                                         investment adviser?
                                                           I. Free offers must be free of cost or any other obligation.
                                                          II. All advertisements where the copy will be seen by 10 or more people
                                                              must be filed with the SEC.
                                                         III. Past specific recommendations may be shown, but only if they include
                                                              all recommendations for at least the previous 12 months and make very
                                                              clear that past performance is not any assurance of the future.
                                                         A.   I only
                                                         B.   I and II
                                                         C.   I and III
                                                         D.   II and III

                                                    2.   Ponzi Planning Associates (PPA), is an investment adviser registered in the
                                                         tri-state area of New York, New Jersey, and Connecticut. PPA’s principal
                                                         office is located in Jersey City, NJ. Which of the following statements is
                                                         CORRECT?
                                                         A. PPA must meet the bonding requirements of the SEC.
                                                         B. PPA must meet the bonding requirements of whichever of the three
                                                            states is the most stringent.
                                                         C. The Connecticut Administrator can require PPA to submit advertisements
                                                            placed in his state.
                                                         D. If the New York Administrator wishes to examine the records of PPA,
                                                            advance written notice must be given.

                                                    3.   Which of the following are unlawful or prohibited practices for an investment
                                                         adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940?
                                                           I. Making an untrue statement of a material fact in a registration applica-
                                                              tion with the SEC
                                                          II. Stating that the firm’s ability and qualifications have been approved by
                                                              the U.S. government
                                                         III. Stating that the firm is registered under the Investment Advisers Act of
                                                              1940
                                                         IV. Representing that the firm is an investment counselor when it does not
                                                              normally render investment advice
                                                          A. I, II, and IV
                                                          B. I and III
                                                          C. II and IV
                                                          D. I, II, III, and IV




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 214                                                                                                               7/15/2016 2:02:52 PM
                                                   Session 3   Federal and State Regulation of Investment Advisers and Their Representatives      215




                                              4.   Under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, an investment adviser would
                                                   be prohibited from engaging in which of the following practices, even if
                                                   disclosed in writing to the customer?
                                                   A. Putting the adviser’s own interests before those of the customer
                                                   B. Providing advice to the customer and receiving compensation for the
                                                      resulting sale of products
                                                   C. Employment with a broker-dealer and also serving as an investment
                                                      adviser
                                                   D. Using advice she provides to customers regarding securities transactions
                                                      as a basis for her own investment account trades

                                              5.   An investment adviser has engaged a website designer. What may the
                                                   designer include on the website?
                                                   A. Client testimonials
                                                   B. A general description of the types of investment advisory programs
                                                      offered by the firm
                                                   C. Recommendations on specific stocks
                                                   D. Recommendations on specific managed investments such as mutual
                                                      funds




                   3. 14     INVESTMENT ADVISORY CONTRACTS
                                  The primary relationship between a client and an investment adviser is evidenced by
                              an investment advisory contract. There are three major differences between federal and
                              state law. The USA prohibits entering into, extending, or renewing any advisory services,
                              unless the contract is in writing, while federal law permits the contract to be written or
                              oral. Another difference concerns the amount of the fees. The USA requires that fees be
                              competitive while federal law only requires that they be reasonable in view of the services
                              rendered. Finally, the NASAA Model Rule on performance-based compensation is a bit
                              more stringent than that of the SEC as we will cover in this section.
                                  Under both acts, the contract must disclose:
                              ■■ the services to be provided, including custody if appropriate;
                              ■■ the term of the contract (contracts can be of any length, not necessarily annual, but all
                                  renewals under state law, just as with initial contracts, must be in writing);
                              ■■ the amount of the advisory fee or the formula for computing the fee;
                              ■■ the amount or manner of calculation of the amount of any prepaid fee to be returned
                                  in the event of contract termination;
                              ■■ whether the contract grants discretionary power to the adviser or its representatives;
                              ■■ that no assignment of the contract may be made by the adviser without the consent of
                                  the other party to the contract (the client); and
                              ■■ that, if the adviser is organized as a partnership, any change to a minority interest in
                                  the firm will be communicated to advisory clients within a reasonable period of time.
                                  A change to a majority of the partnership interests would be considered an assign-
                                  ment.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 215                                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:02:52 PM
     216        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                     The acts also prohibit certain performance fee arrangements contingent on capital
                                 gains or appreciation or waiving fees in the event of losses in the client’s account. There is
                                 an exception, how­ever, from the performance fee provisions for contracts with a qualified
                                 client defined as:
                                 ■■ a natural person or company that immediately after entering into the contract has at
                                     least $1 million under the management of the investment adviser; or
                                 ■■ a natural person or company that the IA has reason to believe that immediately prior
                                     to entering into the contract has a net worth exclusive of the primary residence (in
                                     the case of individuals, assets held jointly with a spouse, but no one else, can be used)
                                     in excess of $2 million; or
                                 ■■ a natural person who is an officer or director of the investment adviser or one of their
                                     IARs who has been employed in the industry at least 12 months. (Did you notice that
                                     12 months is the same as we showed you with the non-delivery requirement for the
                                     brochure supplement?)



                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         Please notice the inconsistency in the rule. It is at least $1 million in AUM
                                                    with the adviser or, net worth in excess of $2 million. Why couldn’t they both be
                                                    at least, or in excess of? Makes the test tougher, doesn’t it?

                                     A fee based on the average amount of money under management over a particular
                                 period is not considered to be a performance fee.
                                     There is one significant difference between the rules for state registered IAs and fed-
                                 eral covered IAs. In order for a state registered IA to enter into, extend, or renew an
                                 investment advisory contract that provides for compensation to the investment adviser on
                                 the basis of a share of capital gains upon or capital appreciation of the funds, or any por-
                                 tion of the funds, of the client, to the extent not otherwise disclosed on Form ADV Part
                                 2, the investment adviser must disclose in writing to the client, all material information
                                 concerning the proposed advisory arrangement, including the following:
                                 ■■ That the fee arrangement may create an incentive for the investment adviser to make
                                     investments that are riskier or more speculative than would be the case in the absence
                                     of a performance fee
                                 ■■ Where relevant, that the investment adviser may receive increased compensation
                                     with regard to unrealized appreciation as well as realized gains in the client’s account
                                 ■■ The periods that will be used to measure investment performance throughout the
                                     contract and their significance in the computation of the fee
                                 ■■ The nature of any index that will be used as a comparative measure of investment;
                                     and performance, the significance of the index, and the reason the investment adviser
                                     believes that the index is appropriate

                                     None of these disclosures apply to federal covered advisers; although, from a practical
                                 standpoint (not on the exam), most of these are made to clients.
                                     The most common type of performance fee is known as a fulcrum fee. In this case, the
                                 fee is averaged over a specified period (at least 12 months) with an increase or decrease
                                 in proportion to the investment performance in relation to the performance of a specified
                                 securities index (usually the S&P 500). For example, for each 5% that the client’s account
                                 outperforms the specified index, the adviser would receive an increase to the fee of 10 basis
                                 points (.10%). Of course, negative performance would have the same results.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 216                                                                                                               7/15/2016 2:02:53 PM
                                                   Session 3   Federal and State Regulation of Investment Advisers and Their Representatives      217




                                  !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT              There are two additional points related to performance-based compensa-
                                              tion that you must know. Firstly, the adviser must use net performance, that
                                              is, consider both gains and losses. Secondly, as with so many other rules, the
                                              Administrator has the power to authorize this type of fee even when the stated
                                              conditions are not met.




                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E        It is necessary for you to understand the technical definition of assignment
                                              as used in the acts. When an advisory firm is sold, what do you think its major
                                              asset is? Furniture? Computers? No. It is the advisory contracts with clients and,
                                              legally, that sale means the contracts have been assigned to the new buyer. This
                                              does not mean that the clients have to approve of the sale; they only have to ap-
                                              prove of letting the new owner(s) manage their money. They can decide to take
                                              their money elsewhere. Assignment also includes any direct or indirect transfer or
                                              pledge of an investment advisory contract by the adviser or of a controlling block
                                              of the adviser’s outstanding voting securities by a stockholder of the adviser. If
                                              the investment adviser is a partnership, no assignment of an investment advisory
                                              contract is considered to result from the death or withdrawal of a minority of the
                                              partners or from the admission to the adviser of one or more partners who, after
                                              admission, will be only a minority interest in the business while a change to a ma-
                                              jority would be considered an assignment. However, a reorganization or similar
                                              activity that does not result in a change of actual control or management of an
                                              investment adviser is not an assignment.




                                Q
                        QUICK QUIZ 3.O        1.   The Investment Advisers Act of 1940 would permit investment advisory con­
                                                   tracts to provide for
                                                     I. assignment without the client’s consent
                                                    II. changes to be made in a partnership with notification to clients within a
                                                        reason­able period of time
                                                   III. compensation based on average assets of the management over a par-
                                                        ticular time period
                                                   A.    I and II
                                                   B.    I and III
                                                   C.    II and III
                                                   D.    I, II, and III




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 217                                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:02:53 PM
     218        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                                    2.   Which two of the following statements regarding investment advisory con-
                                                         tracts demonstrate compliance with the Uniform Securities Act?
                                                           I. ABC Investment Advisers, organized as a partnership with 5 equal part-
                                                              ners, admits 2 additional partners on a proportionate basis, but fails to
                                                              obtain consent of its clients.
                                                          II. DEF Investment Advisers, organized as a partnership with 7 equal part-
                                                              ners, has 4 of those partners simultaneously leave, but the firm contin-
                                                              ues to operate as before while failing to obtain consent of its clients.
                                                         III. GHI Investment Advisers, organized as a corporation with 5 equal share-
                                                              holders, has 3 of them pledge their GHI stock as collateral for a bank
                                                              loan, but the firm fails to obtain consent of its clients.
                                                         IV. JKL Investment Advisers, organized as a corporation with 5 equal share-
                                                              holders, has 3 of them sell their shares to the remaining 2 owners, but
                                                              the firm fails to obtain consent of its clients.
                                                         A.   I and III
                                                         B.   I and IV
                                                         C.   II and III
                                                         D.   II and IV

                                                    3.   Which of the following fee arrangements is legal under the Investment
                                                         Advisers Act of 1940?
                                                         A. Adviser A charges an annual fee of 0.05% of the value of the client’s
                                                            account, due on the first day of the client’s fiscal year.
                                                         B. Adviser B charges an annual fee of 0.075%, guaranteed to be waived if
                                                            the value of the account does not increase during the year.
                                                         C. Adviser C charges an annual fee of 0.05% to be waived if the account
                                                            does not grow by at least 5% during the year.
                                                         D. Adviser D guarantees the annual fee will be waived if the account
                                                            decreases in value while under his management.

                                                    4.   Foster Advisers operates as an investment adviser that is registered in a state
                                                         where the Administrator, by rule, prohibits investment advisers from holding
                                                         custody of client funds and securities. This means that Foster Advisers may
                                                         NOT
                                                         A.   refer clients to an affiliated broker-dealer
                                                         B.   manage client accounts on a discretionary basis
                                                         C.   examine customers’ stock certificates
                                                         D.   have physical custody over its clients’ monies and certificates




                             *
                      CASE STUDY                    Assignment and Notification of Change in Membership

                                                         Situation: Mr. Bixby withdrew $10 million from his account at the end of the
                                                    year, leaving less than $250,000 under management with Market Tech Advisers,
                                                    Inc., an advisory company incorporated in Illinois. During the course of the year,
                                                    three officers left the firm. As a matter of corporate policy, Market Tech did not
                                                    advise Mr. Bixby of these changes.
                                                         The following year, Market Tech (without notifying Mr. Bixby) assigned
                                                    his account to Associated Investment Partners, a small partnership located in
                                                    California, and Mr. Bixby was happy with the new partnership. Shortly after the




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 218                                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:02:53 PM
                                                      Session 3   Federal and State Regulation of Investment Advisers and Their Representatives      219




                                                  assignment, Mr. Bixby learned of the death of one of the major partners through
                                                  an article in the newspaper. He retained his account at Associated even though
                                                  he had not been informed by them of the partner’s death.
                                                       Analysis: Market Tech Advisers, Inc., was under no obligation to inform Mr.
                                                  Bixby of the change in officers because it is a corporation and not a partnership.
                                                  However, they did violate the USA by assigning Mr. Bixby’s account to Associ-
                                                  ated Partners without his consent. Additionally, the USA requires partnerships to
                                                  inform clients of any change in partner membership within a reasonable amount
                                                  of time after the change, which means that Associated Partners violated the USA
                                                  by not informing Mr. Bixby of the partner’s death.




                               *
                             CASE STUDY           Investment Advisory Fees

                                                       Situation: Using the same client information as above, Market Tech Advisers,
                                                  a registered investment advisory company, charges clients a fee of 1% of their
                                                  assets managed by the firm, on the basis of the average amount of funds in the
                                                  account each quarter. In addition, for some of their high net worth clients, Mar-
                                                  ket Tech charges a fee based on the degree to which their performance exceeds
                                                  that of the S&P 500. Last quarter, Market Tech’s performance was extremely
                                                  good, and, as a result, the fees of one of its largest clients, Mr. Bixby, more than
                                                  doubled. Next quarter, the value of the account dropped by 25%, and so did the
                                                  fee. Mr. Bixby complained that Market Tech was sharing in his capital apprecia-
                                                  tion in violation of the USA, because he no longer had the required funds on
                                                  deposit in the account.
                                                       Analysis: Market Tech is in compliance with the USA. Market Tech charged
                                                  Mr. Bixby a 1% fee based on the total assets in the account over a designated
                                                  period as well as the stated performance fee. Because the assets increased and
                                                  the performance beat the benchmark, so did the fee. Market Tech based its fees
                                                  on the average value of funds under management and on a percentage of Mr.
                                                  Bixby’s capital gains—a practice in compliance with the USA for investors with
                                                  a net worth at his level. Even though he no longer had the required minimum
                                                  assets managed by the firm, his net worth was still in excess of the statutory
                                                  minimum. In the subsequent quarter, Market Tech’s fee declined by 25% as a
                                                  result of market deterioration. More than likely, there was no incentive fee earned
                                                  in this quarter.




                   3. 15        AGENCY CROSS TRANSACTIONS
                                      In an agency cross transac­tion, the adviser (or IAR acting on behalf of the firm) acts
                                  as agent for both its advisory client and the party on the other side of the trade. Both state
                                  and federal law will permit an adviser to engage in these transactions provided the advi-
                                  sory client executes a written consent prospectively (in advance) authorizing the invest-
                                  ment adviser to effect agency cross transactions for such client and the adviser discloses
                                  the following:
                                  ■■ The adviser will be receiving commissions from both sides of the trade.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 219                                                                                                                    7/15/2016 2:02:53 PM
     220        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                 ■■ There is a potential conflict of interest because of the division of loyalties to both
                                    sides.
                                 ■■ On at least an annual basis, the adviser will furnish a statement or summary of the
                                    account identifying the total number of such transac­tions and the total amount of all
                                    remuneration from these transactions.
                                 ■■ In a conspicuous manner, indicates that this arrangement may be terminated at any
                                    time.
                                 ■■ No transaction is effected in which the same investment adviser or an investment
                                    adviser and any person controlling, controlled by, or under common control with that
                                    investment adviser recommended the transaction to both any seller and any purchaser.

                                     These requirements do not relieve advisers of their duties to obtain best execution and
                                 best price for any transaction.
                                     In addition to the prior written consent, at or before the completion of each agency
                                 cross transaction, the client must be sent a written trade confirmation which includes:
                                 ■■ a statement of the nature of the transaction;
                                 ■■ the date, and if requested, the time of the transaction; and
                                 ■■ the source and amount of any remuneration to be received by the IA (or IAR) in con-
                                     nection with the transaction.




                             *
                         EXAMPLE                         An adviser has a client who is conservative and another who generally
                                                    looks for more aggressive positions. The conservative client calls and expresses
                                                    concerns about the volatility of First Tech Internet Services, Inc., stating that he
                                                    thinks this may be the best time to exit his position. The adviser agrees and men-
                                                    tions that he has a risk-taking client for whom First Tech is suitable and he’d like
                                                    to “cross” the security between the two clients, charging a small commission to
                                                    each of them. He then contacts the other client and recommends the purchase
                                                    of First Tech. With the prior written consent of both parties, this is not a violation
                                                    because the recommendation was only made to one side (the buyer).




                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT                        In an agency cross transaction, the adviser may not recommend the transac-
                                                    tion to both parties of the trade.




                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E                   In the case of agency cross transactions, permission to engage in them must
                                                    be obtained in writing prior to the first transaction. In essence, the client is giving
                                                    blanket authority to engage in this activity. In the case of acting as a principal or
                                                    agent, as described several pages ago, no blanket authorization is permitted and
                                                    oral, rather than written consent must be obtained prior to the completion of the
                                                    transaction.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 220                                                                                                                    7/15/2016 2:02:53 PM
                                                  Session 3   Federal and State Regulation of Investment Advisers and Their Representatives      221




                   3. 16     CASH REFERRAL FEES
                                   The SEC has not prohibited payment of cash referral fees by investment advisers to
                              persons who solicit business for them. The Investment Advisers Act of 1940 permits pay-
                              ment of cash referral fees to solicitors providing four con­ditions are met. The first three
                              conditions apply to all cash referral fee payments.
                                   The first condition requires that the investment adviser be registered under the
                              Advisers Act. Thus, the rule prohibits cash refer­ral fee payments to a solicitor by an
                              investment adviser required to be registered but who is not registered. The second con-
                              dition prohibits payment of cash referral fees to a solicitor who is subject to a statutory
                              dis­qualification (e.g., a solicitor who is subject to an SEC order or convicted of certain
                              crimes within a 10-year period). The third condition requires cash referral fees to be paid
                              pursuant to a written agreement to which the investment adviser is a party.
                                   Even if the first three conditions are satisfied, cash referral fee payments are prohibited
                              unless they are made in one of three circumstances. In the first circumstance, payments
                              are for the provision of imper­sonal advisory services. The second circumstance is where
                              the adviser pays a referral fee to a person affiliated with the adviser (e.g., a partner, officer,
                              director, or employee of the adviser and this is likely the only case where the individual
                              will be registered as an investment adviser representative of the IA). The third circum-
                              stance in which cash referral fees may be paid involves third-party solicitors who are not
                              persons affiliated with the adviser.
                                   When the cash referral fees are paid to third-party solicitors who are not affiliated with
                              the adviser, the following disclosures must be made:
                              ■■ Unless for impersonal advisory services, the fact that it is a third party must be dis-
                                   closed (this is usually accomplished by requiring that a separate solicitor brochure be
                                   delivered along with the adviser’s brochure).
                              ■■ Any script or sales approach used by the third party is the responsibility of the adviser.

                                   According to the SEC staff, failure to adequately inform clients of a referral fee
                              arrangement may violate the act. The amount of the remu­neration and the basis on which
                              it is paid must be disclosed, together with the fact that the finder is being compensated
                              specifically for refer­ring clients to the adviser.
                                   Finally, the SEC requires investment advisers to keep copies of the following material
                              pertaining to solicitors and referrals:
                              ■■ The separate written disclosure document required to be furnished by the solicitor to
                                   the client (e.g., the Solicitor’s Written Disclosure Document).
                              ■■ Copies of the investment adviser’s disclosure documents (e.g., Form ADV Part 2A)
                                   delivered to the solicited client by the solicitor.

                                  The rules are much simpler for state registered advisers. Under the Uniform Securities
                              Act, in almost every case, anyone who solicits on behalf of an investment adviser must be
                              registered as an IAR. One point made by most of the states is that the solicitor does not
                              have to be registered as an IAR of the IA for whom the solicitations are being made. It
                              sounds kind of strange that you would solicit business for another investment adviser, but
                              that is the way they rule.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 221                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:02:53 PM
     222        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT                        Many good investment advisers are successful at networking. As a result,
                                                    they may refer to, and/or receive referrals from, other professionals, such as at-
                                                    torneys, accountants, and insurance agents. Depending on the nature of the
                                                    relationship, there may even be a fee paid by the investment adviser for the re-
                                                    ferral. The rules we’ve previously discussed regarding cash referral fees deal with
                                                    those who are focused on soliciting clients for an investment adviser. However,
                                                    when a lawyer, accountant, or insurance agent refers a client to an IA, it would
                                                    be permitted for the IA to offer a nominal fee (something in the range of several
                                                    hundred dollars) as a thank you. What would be prohibited would be to have the
                                                    size of the fee based on the size of the client account or the fees generated by
                                                    managing that account.




                             Q
                   QUICK QUIZ 3.P                   1.   Which of the following statements regarding cash referral fees to solicitors
                                                         are CORRECT under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940?
                                                           I. If the solicitation involves anything other than impersonal advisory ser-
                                                              vices, disclosure must be made to the client regarding any affiliation
                                                              between the adviser and the solicitor.
                                                          II. The agreement must be in writing.
                                                         III. The solicitor must not be subject to a statutory disqualification.
                                                         IV. The adviser’s principal business activity must be the rendering of invest­
                                                              ment advice.
                                                         A.   I and II
                                                         B.   I, II and III
                                                         C.   III and IV
                                                         D.   I, II, III, and IV

                                                    2.   Omerta Transparent Advisers, Inc., (OTA), registered with the SEC as
                                                         an investment adviser, wishes to pay an individual to act as a third party
                                                         solicitor to solicit or refer new advisory clients. Under the provisions of the
                                                         Investment Advisers Act of 1940, which of the following statements is TRUE
                                                         regarding this relationship?
                                                         A. The individual would be required to register as an IAR of OTA, Inc.
                                                         B. The individual would not be required to register as an IAR of OTA, Inc.
                                                         C. The individual would be prohibited from registering as an IAR of OTA,
                                                            Inc.
                                                         D. The individual would only be required to register as an IAR of OTA, Inc.
                                                            if compensated for the solicitation activities.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 222                                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:02:53 PM
                                                  Session 3   Federal and State Regulation of Investment Advisers and Their Representatives      223




                   3. 17     FRAUDULENT AND PROHIBITED PRACTICES WHEN
                             PROVIDING INVESTMENT ADVICE
                                  Both acts make it unlawful for any person who receives compensation (directly or indi-
                              rectly) for advising another person (whether through analyses or reports) as to the value of
                              securities to use any device, scheme, or artifice to defraud the other person. Additionally,
                              they may not engage in any act, practice, or course of business that operates or would oper-
                              ate as a fraud or deceit upon the other person or engage in dishonest or unethical practices.
                                  The following are examples of prohibited practices when providing investment advice:
                              ■■ Making a recommendation to an advisory client that is not suitable for that client
                                  based on the financial objectives and goals, financial situation, non-financial consid-
                                  erations, and specific needs. Much of the rest of this course will be devoted to ways to
                                  determine suitability.
                              ■■ Disclosing the identity or investments of a client without consent of the client, unless
                                  required by law (an example of forced disclosure would be a subpoena to testify in a
                                  divorce case or a demand by the IRS to provide information about a client who is
                                  the subject of an audit). Please note that if it is a joint account, permission from one
                                  owner, such as a spouse, suffices for both.
                              ■■ Using third-party prepared materials without proper attribution. Reports that are
                                  purely statistical in nature are excluded from this requirement, but a research report
                                  or market letter prepared by another entity could only be used if its authorship were
                                  disclosed. However, use of someone else’s research report when formulating your own
                                  report does not require disclosure of the source. It is sort of like when you wrote a term
                                  paper in school. If you “lifted” something directly from someone else, you’d better
                                  have disclosed it, because if the teacher found out, you just flunked that paper. But,
                                  if you went to the library and did some research on your own, viewed many different
                                  sources, and then put together a report using your own words, that was yours and was
                                  OK.
                              ■■ Use of any advertisement (defined as a communication to more than one person) that
                                  uses any testimonial (an advertisement may make reference to specific past perfor-
                                  mance of the adviser’s recommendations as long as all recommendations of the same
                                  type of security for at least the past 12 months are included—not only the winners, but
                                  the losers as well). One of the more common testable points is that any advertisement
                                  that promotes the use of a charting system or formula must disclose the limitations and
                                  difficulties of using the system.
                              ■■ Calculating advisory fees using a methodology different than that agreed to in the
                                  contracts
                              ■■ Failing to comply with clients’ wishes concerning directed brokerage arrangements
                              ■■ Causing clients to invest in securities that are inconsistent with the level of risk that
                                  clients have agreed to assume
                              ■■ Allocating client brokerage to a broker in exchange for client referrals without full
                                  disclosure of either the practice or the fact that clients pay higher brokerage commis-
                                  sions and do not obtain the best price and execution
                              ■■ Allocating client brokerage to a broker in exchange for research or other products
                                  without disclosure




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 223                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:02:53 PM
     224        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                 ■■ Trading in securities for personal accounts, or for accounts of family members or affili-
                                    ates, shortly before trading the same securities for clients (i.e., front-running), and
                                    thereby receiving better prices
                                 ■■ Directing clients to trade in securities in which the adviser has an undisclosed interest,
                                    causing the value of those securities to increase to the adviser’s benefit
                                 ■■ Guaranteeing that a specific recommendation will result in a profit (this would include
                                    a promise to reimburse a client for any losses)
                                 ■■ Engaging in the practice of lending to or borrowing money or securities from a cus-
                                    tomer (Investment advisers [or their IARs] may not borrow money or securities from a
                                    client unless the client is a broker-dealer, an affiliate of the adviser, or a financial insti-
                                    tution engaged in the business of loaning money. Likewise, they may not loan money
                                    to clients unless the firm is a financial institution engaged in the business of loaning
                                    funds or the client is an affiliate. [It is the same as covered in the previous session with
                                    agents. Remember, you can’t even lend money to your mother if she is your client.])
                                 ■■ Indicating in an advisory contract, any condition, stipulation, or provisions binding
                                    any person to waive compliance with any provision of the Uniform Securities Act or
                                    the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (e.g., the use of certain hedge clauses or the cli-
                                    ent and IA agreeing to engage in performance-based compensation even though the
                                    client’s assets are below the mandated minimum)
                                 ■■ Unfairly criticizing work done by a client’s professional advisers, such as accountants
                                    and lawyers (e.g., “Your attorney drew up a very poor estate plan”, or “Your CPA
                                    missed many tax saving opportunities on your income tax return” are statements that
                                    may be considered unethical)
                                 ■■ Recommending the same security to clients without regard to individual suitability.
                                    This is sometimes referred to as blanket recommendations
                                 ■■ For state registered advisers, relying on oral discretionary authority for transactions
                                    in a customer’s account beyond the first 10 business days after the date of the initial
                                    transaction
                                 ■■ Sharing in the profits or losses in an advisory client’s account. Remember, of the 4
                                    securities professionals, it is only the agent who, with written consent of the client and
                                    employing broker-dealer, is permitted to do that. Performance-based compensation,
                                    discussed earlier, is not considered sharing in the profits and losses.

                                     For a complete listing of those practices considered unethical, please review Appendix
                                 B, which contains NASAA’s Model Rule on Unethical Business Practices of Investment
                                 Advisers and Investment Adviser Representatives. Pay particular attention to NASAA’s
                                 comments since they use those to derive actual test questions.

                                     If you are an investment adviser registered or required to be registered under the
                                 Investment Advisers Act of 1940, it is unlawful for you to provide investment advice to
                                 clients unless you:
                                 ■■ adopt and implement written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent
                                     violation, by you and your supervised persons, of the act and the rules that the SEC
                                     has adopted under the act;
                                 ■■ review, no less frequently than annually, the adequacy of the policies and procedures
                                     established pursuant to this act and the effectiveness of their implementation; and
                                 ■■ designate an individual (who is a supervised person) responsible for administering the
                                     policies and procedures that you adopt, as noted above.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 224                                                                                                            7/15/2016 2:02:53 PM
                                                   Session 3   Federal and State Regulation of Investment Advisers and Their Representatives      225




                   3. 18     SECTION 28(E) SAFE HARBOR
                                   Research is the foundation of the money management industry. Providing research is
                              one important, long-standing service of the brokerage business. Soft-dollar arrangements
                              have developed as a link between the brokerage industry’s supply of research and the
                              money management industry’s demand for research. What does that mean and how does it
                              work? To find the answers, we must review the provisions of Section 28(e) of the Securities
                              Exchange Act of 1934.
                                   Broker-dealers typically provide a bundle of services, including research and execution
                              of transactions. The research provided can be either proprietary (created and provided by
                              the broker-dealer, including tangible research products as well as access to analysts and
                              traders) or third party (created by a third party but provided by the broker-dealer). Because
                              commission dollars pay for the entire bundle of services, the practice of allocating certain
                              of these dollars to pay for the research component has come to be called soft dollars. The
                              SEC has defined soft-dollar practices as arrangements under which products or services
                              other than execution of securities transactions are obtained by an adviser from or through
                              a broker-dealer in exchange for the direction by the adviser of client brokerage transac-
                              tions to the broker-dealer, frequently referred to as directed transactions on the exam. Under
                              traditional fiduciary principles, a fiduciary cannot use assets entrusted by clients to benefit
                              itself. As the SEC has recognized, when an adviser uses client commissions to buy research
                              from a broker-dealer, it receives a benefit because it is relieved from the need to produce
                              or pay for the research itself.
                                   Because of the conflict of interest that exists when an investment adviser receives
                              research, products, or other services as a result of allocating brokerage on behalf of clients,
                              the SEC requires advisers to disclose soft-dollar arrangements to their clients. Section
                              28(e) provides that a person who exercises investment discretion with respect to an
                              account will not be deemed to have acted unlawfully or to have breached a fiduciary duty
                              solely by reason of his having caused the account to pay more than the lowest available
                              commission if such person determines in good faith that the amount of the commission is
                              reasonable in relation to the value of the brokerage and research services provided.
                                   In adopting Section 28(e), Congress acknowledged the important service broker-
                              dealers provide by producing and distributing investment research to money managers.
                              Section 28(e) defines when a person is deemed to be providing brokerage and research
                              services, and states that a person provides brokerage and research services insofar as he:
                              ■■ furnishes advice directly or through publications or writing about the value of securi-
                                   ties, the advisability of investing in, purchasing, or selling securities, or the availability
                                   of purchasers or sellers of securities;
                              ■■ furnishes analyses and reports concerning issuers, industries, securities, economic fac-
                                   tors and trends, portfolio strategy, and performance of accounts; or
                              ■■ effects securities transactions and performs functions incidental thereto (such as clear-
                                   ance, settlement, and custody).

                                   An adviser is obligated under both the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and state
                              law to act in the best interests of its client. This duty generally precludes the adviser from
                              using client assets for its own benefit or the benefit of other clients, without obtaining the
                              client’s consent based on full and fair disclosure. In such a situation, the antifraud provi-
                              sions of the federal securities laws also would require full and fair disclosure to the client
                              of all material facts concerning the arrangement. As the SEC has stated, “the adviser may
                              not use its client’s assets for its own benefit without prior consent, even if it costs the cli-




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 225                                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:02:53 PM
     226        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                 ent nothing extra.” Consent may be expressly provided by the client; consent also may
                                 be inferred from all of the facts and circumstances, including the adviser’s disclosure in its
                                 Form ADV.
                                     Section 28(e) does not relieve investment advisers of their disclosure obligations
                                 under the federal securities laws. Disclosure is required whether the product or service
                                 acquired by the adviser using soft dollars is inside or outside of the safe harbor. Advisers
                                 are required to disclose, among other things, the products and services received through
                                 soft-dollar arrangements, regardless of whether the safe harbor applies.
                                     Registered investment advisers must disclose certain information about their broker-
                                 age allocation policies to clients in Item 12 of Part 2A of Form ADV. Specifically, if the
                                 value of products, research, and services provided to an investment adviser is a factor in
                                 selecting brokers to execute client trades, the investment adviser must describe in its Form
                                 ADV:
                                 ■■ the products, research, and services;
                                 ■■ whether clients may pay commissions higher than those obtainable from other brokers
                                     in return for the research, products, and services;
                                 ■■ whether research is used to service all accounts or just those accounts paying for it; and
                                 ■■ any procedures that the adviser used during the last fiscal year to direct client transac-
                                     tions to a particular broker in return for products, research and services received.

                                      The purpose of this disclosure is to provide clients with material information about the
                                 adviser’s brokerage selection practices that may be important to clients in deciding to hire
                                 or continue a contract with an adviser and that will permit them to evaluate any conflicts
                                 of interest inherent in the adviser’s policies and practices. In this respect, the SEC and
                                 courts have stated that disclosure is required, even when there is only a potential conflict
                                 of interest.
                                      Here is an example of a statement found in one adviser’s brochure:

                                          “We may direct transactions for your account to registered broker-dealers in return for
                                      research products and services that assist us in making decisions about investments. The re-
                                      search products will be used to generally service all of our clients, so the brokerage commis-
                                      sions you pay may be used to pay for research that is not used in managing your account.”

                                     Finally, the SEC believes that an adviser accepting soft dollar benefits must explain
                                 that:
                                 ■■ the adviser benefits because it does not have to produce or pay for the research or other
                                     products or services acquired with soft dollars; and
                                 ■■ the adviser therefore has an incentive to select or recommend brokers based on the
                                     adviser’s interest in receiving these benefits, rather than on the client’s interest in get-
                                     ting the most favorable execution.



                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                         What this all comes down to is knowing what is and what is not included in
                                                    the safe harbor. Here are some of the items that, if received as soft-dollar com-
                                                    pensation, would likely fall under 28(e)’s safe harbor:
                                                         ■■ research reports analyzing the performance of a particular company or
                                                            stock;




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 226                                                                                                              7/15/2016 2:02:53 PM
                                              Session 3   Federal and State Regulation of Investment Advisers and Their Representatives      227




                                              ■■ financial newsletters and trade journals could be eligible research if they
                                                 relate with appropriate specificity;

                                              ■■ quantitative analytical software;

                                              ■■ seminars or conferences with appropriate content; and

                                              ■■ effecting and clearing securities trades.

                                              Likely to fall out of the safe harbor would be:
                                              ■■ telephone lines;

                                              ■■ office furniture, including computer hardware;

                                              ■■ travel expenses associated with attending seminars;

                                              ■■ rent;

                                              ■■ any software that does not relate directly to analysis of securities;

                                              ■■ payment for training courses for this exam; and

                                              ■■ internet service.




                             Q
                        QUICK QUIZ 3.Q   1.   Which of the following would NOT be included in the safe harbor provisions
                                              of Section 28(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934?
                                              A.    Proprietary research
                                              B.    Third-party research
                                              C.    Rent
                                              D.    Seminar registration fees

                                         2.   When an investment adviser with discretion over a client’s account directs
                                              trade executions to a specific broker-dealer and uses the commission dollars
                                              generated to acquire software that analyzes technical market trends, it is
                                              known as
                                              A.    hard-dollar compensation
                                              B.    indirect compensation
                                              C.    investment discretion
                                              D.    soft-dollar compensation

                                         3.   One respect in which NASAA treats the handling of discretionary authoriza-
                                              tion by an investment adviser differently from the SEC is that
                                              A. NASAA has a requirement that all discretionary orders be approved
                                                 before entry
                                              B. NASAA allows use of oral discretion for the first 10 business days after
                                                 the date of the first transaction
                                              C. an investment adviser is prohibited from opening discretionary accounts
                                                 without prior notification to the Administrator
                                              D. a federal covered adviser may not be cited for churning a discretionary
                                                 account by an Administrator




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 227                                                                                                            7/15/2016 2:02:53 PM
     228        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                                    4.   Which of the following would justify an investment adviser’s use of a full-
                                                         service broker?
                                                           I. Obtaining special reports dealing with economic projections from the
                                                              broker
                                                          II. Expense-paid business trips paid for by the broker
                                                         III. The use of the research analysis provided by the broker
                                                          A. I and II
                                                          B. I and III
                                                          C. II and III
                                                          D. I, II, and III




                             Q
                   QUICK QUIZ 3.R                   1.   An investment advisory contract need NOT include
                                                         A. the fees and their method of computation
                                                         B. a statement prohibiting assignment of client accounts without client
                                                            consent
                                                         C. the states in which the adviser is licensed to conduct business
                                                         D. notification requirement upon change in membership if an investment
                                                            partnership

                                                         True or False?

                                                    ____      2.	An Administrator may not prevent custody of securities or funds if
                                                                  an adviser notifies the Administrator before taking custody.

                                                    ____      3.	An adviser may not sell securities to its customers from its own pro-
                                                                  prietary account.

                                                    ____      4.	Under USA antifraud provisions, an investment adviser is bound by
                                                                  the restrictions that apply to sales practices when engaged in sales
                                                                  activities.




             3. 19           OTHER BROKERAGE PRACTICES
                                     In addition to disclosing how soft dollars are handled, there are several other practices
                                 involving broker-dealers and investment advisers where disclosure is required. Investment
                                 advisers must describe the factors that they consider in selecting or recommending broker-
                                 dealers for client transactions and determining the reasonableness of the broker-dealer’s
                                 compensation.


             3. 19. 1 CLIENT REFERRALS
                                     It is not an uncommon practice for broker-dealers to recommend their clients to
                                 investment advisers. Naturally, the investment adviser is happy to receive the referral, and
                                 the broker-dealer hopes to continue to execute the client’s trades. This is considered as if
                                 the IA is compensating the broker-dealer for the referral. It is not illegal, but the IA must




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 228                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:02:53 PM
                                                    Session 3   Federal and State Regulation of Investment Advisers and Their Representatives      229




                               disclose the practice and, as a fiduciary, take steps to insure that the charges for the services
                               being rendered by the broker-dealer are reasonable.


                   3. 19. 2 DIRECTED BROKERAGE
                                   Directed brokerage is the practice of asking or permitting clients to send trades to a
                               specific broker-dealer for execution When the IA suggests the client use a specific broker-
                               dealer(s), disclosure of any possible conflicts of interest must be made. There is nothing
                               wrong with urging clients to use specific firms because of the quality of service received,
                               even if the IA is doing so in response to referrals or soft dollars. As long as it is disclosed
                               and the services rendered bear a reasonable relationship to their cost, directed brokerage
                               should be a good deal for both the client and the IA. On the other hand, if the adviser
                               permits the client to direct the brokerage firm to use, certain other disclosures are required.
                               For example, the IA must explain that it may be unable to achieve most favorable execu-
                               tion of client transactions or that directing brokerage may cost clients more money. For
                               example, in a client-directed brokerage account, the client may pay higher brokerage com-
                               missions because the IA may not be able to aggregate orders to reduce transaction costs, or
                               the client may receive less favorable prices because the IA has arranged a preferred com-
                               mission rate with a preferred broker-dealer. Here is an example of how that might appear
                               in the brochure:

                                        “It is important to note that if you do not give KAPCO Advisers discretion to direct
                                   trades, you may limit our ability to negotiate favorable commissions and seek best execution
                                   for trades in your account. You may also be excluded from block trades and average price
                                   transactions.”


                   3. 19. 3 TRADE AGGREGATION AND ALLOCATION
                                   This is the practice of bundling (sometimes called bunching) trades to obtain vol-
                               ume discounts on execution costs. It occurs most often when an IA with discretion over
                               accounts has several of them for whom the same security is appropriate and, instead of
                               entering separate orders, enters them as one larger order. This invariably saves on execu-
                               tion costs. Sometimes, the order cannot be filled in one transaction or at a single price. In
                               that case, it is generally considered that the fairest method of allocating the security’s cost
                               is on an average basis.



                   3. 20     VOTING CLIENT SECURITIES
                                   In many client accounts with investment advisers, voting proxies come to the invest-
                               ment adviser instead of to the clients themselves. Therefore, there may be questions
                               regarding how those proxies are voted. Included in the adviser’s brochure, Part 2A of the
                               Form ADV, must be information about the adviser’s policy on voting client securities. If
                               the IA has, or will accept, authority to vote client securities, a brief description must be
                               given to describe those voting policies and procedures. This summary must describe:
                               ■■ whether (and, if so, how) clients can direct the IA’s vote in a particular solicitation;




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 229                                                                                                                  7/15/2016 2:02:53 PM
     230        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                 ■■ how the IA addresses conflicts of interest between himself and his clients with respect
                                    to voting their securities;
                                 ■■ how clients may obtain information from the IA about how he voted their securities;
                                    and
                                 ■■ how clients may obtain a copy of the firm’s proxy voting policies and procedures upon
                                    request.

                                     If the adviser does not have authority to vote client securities, this fact must be dis-
                                 closed. An explanation must be given as to whether clients will receive their proxies or
                                 other solicitations directly from their custodian or a transfer agent or from the adviser,
                                 and they must be informed whether (and, if so, how) clients can contact the adviser with
                                 questions about a particular solicitation.



             3. 21           COMPLIANCE PROGRAMS
                                      We have just completed a very comprehensive description of the many rules and regu-
                                 lations imposed upon investment advisers. How do the regulators ensure compliance with
                                 these rules? Effective October 2004, the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 was amended to
                                 require each investment adviser registered with the SEC to adopt and implement written
                                 policies and procedures designed to prevent violation of the federal securities laws, review
                                 those policies and procedures annually for their adequacy and the effectiveness of their
                                 implementation, and designate a chief compliance officer (CCO) to be responsible for
                                 administering the policies and procedures. An adviser’s chief compliance officer should be
                                 competent and knowledgeable regarding the Advisers Act and should be empowered with
                                 full responsibility and authority to develop and enforce appropriate policies and proce-
                                 dures for the firm. Thus, the compliance officer should have a position of sufficient senior-
                                 ity and authority within the organization to compel others to adhere to the compliance
                                 policies and procedures. In fact, the CCO’s identity must be disclosed on the Form ADV.
                                 However, the SEC does not set a standard of competency such as a specific qualification
                                 exam or number of years of experience.
                                      Under rule 206(4)-7, it is unlawful for an investment adviser registered with the
                                 Commission to provide investment advice unless the adviser has adopted and imple-
                                 mented written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent violation of the
                                 Advisers Act by the adviser or any of its supervised persons. The rule requires advisers to
                                 consider their fiduciary and regulatory obligations under the Advisers Act and to formalize
                                 policies and procedures to address them.
                                      Each adviser, in designing its policies and procedures, should first identify conflicts
                                 and other compliance factors creating risk exposure for the firm and its clients in light of
                                 the firm’s particular operations, and then design policies and procedures that address those
                                 risks. The SEC expects that an adviser’s policies and procedures, at a minimum, should
                                 address the following issues to the extent that they are relevant to that adviser:
                                 ■■ Portfolio management processes, including allocation of investment opportunities
                                      among clients and consistency of portfolios with clients’ investment objectives, dis-
                                      closures by the adviser, and applicable regulatory restrictions
                                 ■■ Trading practices, including procedures by which the adviser satisfies its best execu-
                                      tion obligation, uses client brokerage to obtain research and other services (“soft-
                                      dollar arrangements”), and allocates aggregated trades among clients




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 230                                                                                                       7/15/2016 2:02:53 PM
                                                    Session 3   Federal and State Regulation of Investment Advisers and Their Representatives      231




                                ■■ Proprietary trading of the adviser and personal trading activities of supervised persons
                                ■■ The accuracy of disclosures made to investors, clients, and regulators, including
                                   account statements and advertisements
                                ■■ Safeguarding of client assets from conversion or inappropriate use by advisory person-
                                   nel
                                ■■ The accurate creation of required records and their maintenance in a manner that
                                   secures them from unauthorized alteration or use and protects them from untimely
                                   destruction
                                ■■ Marketing advisory services, including the use of solicitors
                                ■■ Processes to value client holdings and assess fees based on those valuations
                                ■■ Safeguards for the privacy protection of client records and information
                                ■■ Business continuity plans

                                    Although the rule requires only annual reviews, advisers should consider the need for
                                interim reviews in response to significant compliance events, changes in business arrange-
                                ments, and regulatory developments.


                   3. 21. 1 POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS BY INVESTMENT
                            ADVISERS (PAY TO PLAY RULE)
                                     This is an SEC rule that prohibits investment advisers from receiving compensation
                                for advisory services to a government entity (any agency, authority, or instrumentality of a
                                state or political subdivision) for two years after the advisory firm or any covered employee
                                makes a political contribution to a public official or candidate who is or would be in a posi-
                                tion to influence the award of investment advisory business by public retirement funds.
                                Please note that the advisory relationship can continue, just without any compensation.
                                There are some exceptions, listed below.


                        3. 21. 1. 1 De minimis Exception
                                    The rule allows covered employees to make contributions up to $350 per official or
                                candidate per election in which they can vote, or $150 for other elections. Contributions
                                by investment firms in any amount would trigger a violation of the rule.

                                3. 21. 1. 1. 1 Covered Associates

                                   Covered individuals include:
                                ■■ any general partner, managing member or executive officer, or other individual with a
                                   similar status or function;
                                ■■ any employee who solicits a government entity for the investment adviser and any
                                   person who supervises, directly or indirectly, such employee; and
                                ■■ any political action committee controlled by the investment adviser.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 231                                                                                                                  7/15/2016 2:02:54 PM
     232        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                   3. 21. 1. 2 New Hire Exception
                                     When an investment adviser hires a new covered associate, political contributions
                                 made by that individual more than six months before coming on board do not trigger the
                                 ban. However, if the new person’s role is soliciting clients on behalf of the investment
                                 adviser, rather than rendering advice or other functions, this exception does not apply. In
                                 that case, there is a two-year look back period.


                   3. 21. 1. 3 Returned Contributions Exceptions
                                     An investment adviser can be excepted from the prohibition if the contribution is
                                 returned under certain conditions.
                                 ■■ The investment adviser must have discovered the contribution that resulted in the
                                     prohibition within four months of the date of such contribution.
                                 ■■ Such contribution must not have exceeded $350.
                                 ■■ The contributor must obtain a return of the contribution within 60 calendar days of
                                     the date of discovery of such contribution by the investment adviser.

                                     Although unlikely to be tested, an investment adviser with more than 50 employees is
                                 entitled to no more than 3 exceptions, and one with 50 or fewer employees is limited to 2
                                 exceptions during any single calendar year.



             3. 22           ENFORCEMENT
                                      Enforcement and administration of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 is the respon-
                                 sibility of the SEC. As of the date of publication, there is no self-regulatory organization
                                 (SRO) for investment advisers. If that situation should change and become testable, it
                                 will be posted in both the Exam-tips Blog & Content Updates. In other words, FINRA,
                                 the NYSE, and the like have no jurisdiction over federal covered investment advisers;
                                 only the SEC does. If the SEC suspects a violation of the law or its rules, it may take the
                                 following actions:
                                 ■■ Subpoena witnesses
                                 ■■ Acquire evidence
                                 ■■ Subpoena books and records
                                 ■■ Administer oaths
                                 ■■ Go to a competent court of jurisdiction to obtain an injunction enjoining a person
                                      from continued activity until the results of a hearing
                                 ■■ Refer to the appropriate court for criminal prosecution

                                      The SEC has the power to censure, place limitations on the activi­ties, functions, or
                                 operations of, suspend for a period not exceeding 12 months, or revoke the registration
                                 of any investment adviser if it finds, after a hearing, that the penalty is appropriate. If it
                                 is necessary to go to court, all hearings are held in the federal court system. If a defen­dant
                                 is found guilty, he may appeal an SEC order against him by filing that appeal in the U.S.
                                 Court of Appeals with jurisdic­tion where the violation occurred.
                                      If the violation is one in which the SEC seeks criminal penal­ties, the act provides for




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 232                                                                                                         7/15/2016 2:02:54 PM
                                                 Session 3   Federal and State Regulation of Investment Advisers and Their Representatives      233




                              a fine of no more than $10,000, imprisonment for no more than five years, or both.
                                   Enforcement and administration of the USA is the responsibility of each individual
                              Administrator. If the Administrator suspects a violation of the law or its rules, he may take
                              all of the actions listed above.
                                   However, there is nothing in the USA that specifies a maximum suspension as there is
                              in the federal law. Another difference is that, in the case of an appeal, it is made through
                              the state court system, not the federal one. In both cases, the appeal must be filed within
                              60 days of the court’s decision.
                                   Another difference is in the level of penalties. Under the USA, the maximum penal-
                              ties for a criminal infraction are a fine of up to $5,000, or a prison sentence not to exceed
                              three years, or both. However, imprisonment is only an option when the violation is com-
                              mitted knowingly.



                             !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                   You will be asked about either or both of these penalties on your exam and
                                              must be able to keep them straight. Federal law is $10,000 and five years. State
                                              law is $5,000 and three years.




                   3. 23     CYBERSECURITY, DATA PROTECTION, AND PRIVACY
                                  Hardly a day goes by without news of a hacking attempt that has compromised the
                              security of a company, its clients, or both. There are steps that can be taken by securities
                              professionals to reduce the potential for loss to the firm and its clients.



                   3. 23. 1 CYBERSECURITY POINTS TO BE ADDRESSED:
                                  In September 2014, NASAA released results of a pilot survey designed to better
                              understand the cybersecurity practices of state-registered investment advisers. Based on
                              that survey, in setting up a cybersecurity program, NASAA suggests addressing the fol-
                              lowing points:
                              ■■ Cyber preparedness: Has the firm addressed which cybersecurity threats and vulner-
                                  abilities may impact its business?
                              ■■ Cybersecurity compliance program: Does the firm have written policies, procedures,
                                  or training programs in place regarding safeguarding client information?
                              ■■ Cybersecurity and social media: Does the firm have written policies, procedures, or
                                  training programs in place relating to the use of social media for business purposes
                                  (e.g., Linkedin, Twitter, Facebook)?
                              ■■ Cyber insurance: Does the firm maintain insurance coverage for cybersecurity?
                              ■■ Cyber expertise: Has the firm engaged an outside consultant to provide cybersecurity
                                  services for your firm?
                              ■■ Cyber confidentiality: Does the firm have confidentiality agreements with any third-
                                  party service providers with access to the firm’s information technology systems?
                              ■■ Cyber incident: Has the firm ever experienced a cybersecurity incident where, directly
                                  or indirectly, theft, loss, unauthorized exposure, use of, or access to customer informa-




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 233                                                                                                               7/15/2016 2:02:54 PM
     234        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                    tion occurred? If so, has the firm taken steps to close any gaps in its cybersecurity
                                    infrastructure?
                                 ■■ Cyber disposal: Does the firm have a procedure for the disposal of electronic data
                                    storage devices?
                                 ■■ Cyber continuation: What are the plans for your firm’s continued operation during a
                                    cyber-event or cybersecurity incident?
                                 ■■ Cyber losses: Are there plans for treating the loss of electronic devices (e.g., loss of a
                                    laptop containing personal and confidential client information)?
                                 ■■ Cybersecurity safeguards: Does the firm use safeguards, such as encryption and anti-
                                    virus or anti-malware programs? Does the firm contact clients via email or other elec-
                                    tronic messaging, and if so, does the firm use secure email or any procedures to authen-
                                    ticate client instructions received via email or electronic messaging, to work against
                                    the possibility of a client being impersonated?


                   3. 23. 1. 1 Safeguarding Client Information
                                     Broker-dealers have a great deal of information about their clients that would be highly
                                 valuable to persons with evil intentions. Our primary concern here is with identity theft,
                                 which may be used to falsify client requests for funds and/or securities. In order to combat
                                 identity theft, securities professionals must be aware of the red flags.




                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         Identity theft means a fraud committed or attempted using the identifying
                                                    information of another person without authority. Red flag means a pattern, prac-
                                                    tice, or specific activity that indicates the possible existence of identity theft.

                                     The regulators are concerned when broker-dealers (or other financial professionals)
                                 maintain what are referred to as “covered accounts.” The term covered account is defined
                                 as:
                                 ■■ an account that a financial institution offers or maintains—primarily for personal,
                                     family, or household purposes—that involves or is designed to permit multiple pay-
                                     ments or transactions (not a business account—it is felt that there is much less iden-
                                     tity theft risk there); and
                                 ■■ any other account that the financial institution offers or maintains for which there is a
                                     reasonably foreseeable risk to customers or to the safety and soundness of the financial
                                     institution from identity theft, including financial, operational, compliance, reputa-
                                     tion, or litigation risks.




                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                        The definition includes a margin account as an example of a covered ac-
                                                    count. Also included is a brokerage account with a broker-dealer or an account
                                                    maintained by a mutual fund (or its agent) that permits wire transfers or other
                                                    payments to third parties.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 234                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:02:54 PM
                                                   Session 3   Federal and State Regulation of Investment Advisers and Their Representatives      235




                                    Investment advisers who have the ability to direct transfers or payments from accounts
                                belonging to individuals to third parties upon the individuals’ instructions, or who act as
                                agents on behalf of the individuals, are susceptible to the same types of risks of fraud as
                                other financial institutions. Individuals who hold accounts with these investment advis-
                                ers bear the same types of risks of identity theft and loss of assets as consumers holding
                                accounts with other financial institutions. If such an adviser does not have a program in
                                place to verify investors’ identities and detect identity theft red flags, another individual
                                may deceive the adviser by posing as an investor.
                                    It is required that each financial institution that offers or maintains one or more cov-
                                ered accounts must develop and implement a written program designed to detect, prevent,
                                and mitigate identity theft in connection with the opening of a covered account or any
                                existing covered account. These provisions also require that each program be appropri-
                                ate to the size and complexity of the financial institution and the nature and scope of its
                                activities.
                                    The program must include reasonable policies and procedures to:
                                ■■ identify relevant red flags for the covered accounts that the financial institution offers
                                    or maintains and incorporate those red flags into its program;
                                ■■ detect red flags that have been incorporated into the program of the financial institu-
                                    tion;
                                ■■ respond appropriately to any red flags that are detected to prevent and mitigate iden-
                                    tity theft; and
                                ■■ ensure the program (including the red flags determined to be relevant) is updated
                                    periodically to reflect changes in risks to customers and to the safety and soundness of
                                    the financial institution or creditor from identity theft.


                        3. 23. 1. 2 Identity Theft Red Flags
                                    Following is a list of some of the most common warnings that firms should include in
                                their identity theft programs as is appropriate to the nature of the firm’s business:
                                ■■ Alerts, notifications, or other warnings received from consumer reporting agencies
                                    or service providers, such as fraud detection services or a notice of credit freeze in
                                    response to a request for a consumer report;
                                ■■ Presentation of suspicious documents, such as documents that appear to have been
                                    altered or forged;
                                ■■ The photograph or physical description on the identification is not consistent with
                                    the appearance of the applicant or customer presenting the identification;
                                ■■ Presentation of suspicious personal identifying information, such as a suspicious
                                    address change;
                                ■■ Unusual use of, or other suspicious activity related to, a covered account;
                                ■■ Notice from customers, victims of identity theft, law enforcement authorities, or other
                                    persons regarding possible identity theft in connection with covered accounts held by
                                    the financial institution;
                                ■■ Personal identifying information provided by the customer is not consistent with
                                    other personal identifying information provided by the customer (e.g., there is a lack
                                    of correlation between the SSN range and date of birth);




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 235                                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:02:54 PM
     236        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                 ■■ Personal identifying information provided is of a type commonly associated with
                                    fraudulent activity as indicated by internal or third-party sources used by the financial
                                    institution. For example
                                      —— The address on an application is fictitious, a mail drop, or a prison, or
                                    —— The phone number is invalid or is associated with a pager or answering service;
                                 ■■ For financial institutions that use challenge questions (what is the name of your first
                                    pet, etc.), the person opening the covered account or the customer cannot provide
                                    authenticating information beyond that which generally would be available from a
                                    wallet or consumer report; and
                                 ■■ Mail sent to the customer is returned repeatedly as undeliverable although transac-
                                    tions continue to be conducted in connection with the customer’s covered account.

                                      Please note, this is not meant to be an exhaustive list. Your firm will make you aware
                                 of its program and the specific red flags they are addressing. The exam is more concerned
                                 about concept than an actual list, although you should be able to recognize obvious pat-
                                 terns of misuse in an account.


             3. 23. 2 METHODS FOR PROTECTING THE FIRM AND ITS
                      CUSTOMERS
                                     What are the methods of authentication used by customers or employees to access
                                 electronic data storage devices, which allow access to client communications, client infor-
                                 mation, or both?
                                 ■■ Single-factor authentication (e.g., ID/ Password)
                                 ■■ Dual-factor authentication (e.g., Key FOBS, secure IDs)
                                 ■■ Adaptive-factor authentication (e.g., challenge questions)
                                 ■■ Biometric authentication (e.g., fingerprint scan)
                                 ■■ Antivirus software installed on electronic devices used to access client information

                                    Some questions to ask regarding the security methods used include the following.
                                 ■■ How often are updates downloaded to antivirus software?
                                 ■■ Does your firm utilize encryption on its files or devices?
                                 ■■ Does your firm utilize online or remote backup of electronic files?
                                 ■■ Does your firm allow remote access to servers or workstations via a virtual private net-
                                    work (VPN) or similar technology?
                                 ■■ Does your firm use free Cloud services such as iCloud, Dropbox, or Google Drive, to
                                    store personal and confidential client information?
                                 ■■ Does your firm utilize your firm’s website to use or access client information data?
                                 ■■ Does your firm’s website include a client portal?

                                    As you can see from the many questions posed, protecting data is not a simple issue.
                                 Although the decision as to what will be used and how it will be used is that of the firm,
                                 agents must be aware of the tools being employed and how they work. That is why so much
                                 emphasis is placed on initial and continual training.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 236                                                                                                      7/15/2016 2:02:54 PM
                                                        Session 3   Federal and State Regulation of Investment Advisers and Their Representatives      237




                   3. 23. 3 PRIVACY – REGULATION S-P
                                         Regulation S-P, mandated by the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, requires that firms take
                                     identity theft seriously and have adequate safeguards in the form of privacy policies to pro-
                                     tect nonpublic personal information from unauthorized access or use. Member firms must
                                     provide an initial privacy notice to new customers when an account is opened and must
                                     provide an annual privacy notice to all customers. Regulation S-P permits firms to dis-
                                     close nonpublic personal information to unaffiliated third parties unless the customer has
                                     elected to opt out of the disclosure. Examples of nonpublic personal information include a
                                     customer’s Social Security number, account balances, transaction history, the fact that the
                                     individual was at one time a customer, and any information collected through a consumer
                                     reporting agency or an internet cookie.​Furthermore, the regulation requires that the cus-
                                     tomer be given 30 days to opt-out before disclosure of nonpublic personal information may
                                     be made.




                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                           An internet cookie is created with a view that allows the member firm to col-
                                                     lect information about the customer and is an example that illustrates one of the
                                                     many ways that any financial institution may obtain information about a con-
                                                     sumer in connection with providing a financial product or service to that specific
                                                     consumer. If the information is not specific, it is known as blind data or aggregate
                                                     information that contains no personal identifiers. It is not deemed to be person-
                                                     ally identifiable information and, therefore, not subject to Regulation S-P require-
                                                     ments.

                                         Regulation S-P distinguishes between a consumer and a customer. A consumer is an
                                     individual who obtains a financial product or service from a firm and has no further contact
                                     with the firm. A customer is an individual who has an ongoing relationship with a firm.
                                     Consumers are given an initial privacy notice only, while customers must be given both
                                     an initial and annual privacy notice. Only individuals, not businesses or institutions, are
                                     covered by the regulation.
                                         Regulation S-P also requires members to adopt policies and procedures that provide
                                     adequate safeguards of confidential customer information and records. Not a month goes
                                     by without a headline of a major break in security at a large company. Technological
                                     advancements, such as Wireless Fidelity (Wi-Fi), present many confidentiality issues for
                                     firms. Among the many security concerns is that data are broadcast out into the airwaves,
                                     making interception easier. Wireless connections present an attractive mechanism for
                                     hackers to tap into the user’s workstation to gain access to the corporate network. Before
                                     permitting employees to access customer information remotely, members must implement
                                     and update appropriate measures to secure customer information. These measures may
                                     need to go far beyond a firewall and off-the-shelf defensive software to stay ahead of crimi-
                                     nals who want to access your systems.




                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                         Reasonable opt-out methods available to members include providing a reply
                                                     form with the opt-out notice, an electronic means to opt out if the customer




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 237                                                                                                                      7/15/2016 2:02:54 PM
     238        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                                    has agreed to the electronic delivery of information, and a toll-free number that
                                                    customers may call.
                                                        The SEC has stated that members are not providing a reasonable means to
                                                    opt out if the only method to do so is by writing a letter to the member.




                             Q
                   QUICK QUIZ 3.S
                                                    1.   Protection of customer confidential information is an obligation of the
                                                           I.   agent servicing the customer’s account
                                                          II.   broker-dealer maintaining the account
                                                         III.   customer
                                                         IV.    investment adviser in an advisory account
                                                         A.     I and II
                                                         B.     II and IV
                                                         C.     III and IV
                                                         D.     I, II, III, and IV

                                                    2.   A broker-dealer’s cybersecurity procedures should address all of the following
                                                         EXCEPT
                                                         A. the music played while customers are placed on hold
                                                         B. office desktop computers
                                                         C. agent’s personal smartphones used on occasion to communicate with
                                                            clients
                                                         D. remote access to servers or workstations via a virtual private network
                                                            (VPN)

                                                    3.   Under Regulation S-P, if an investment adviser sends a customer an initial
                                                         privacy notice that contains an opt-out provision, the firm may NOT disclose
                                                         nonpublic, personal information about that customer for how many days
                                                         from the mailing?
                                                         A.     10
                                                         B.     15
                                                         C.     20
                                                         D.     30




             3. 24           BUSINESS CONTINUITY AND SUCCESSION PLANS



                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         As mentioned several times, NASAA does not have a separate principal’s
                                                    registration category like FINRA does. This means that registrants passing the
                                                    Series 66 (or Series 65) exam can go to the Administrator’s office with a com-
                                                    pleted Form ADV and, in most states, a check for $200 and become a registered
                                                    investment adviser. Because there is no way for NASAA to know if you will be
                                                    opening your own IA firm or simply working as an IAR, some of the information
                                                    tested goes into detail one would expect to be limited to the owners of the firm.
                                                    This next portion is an example of that.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 238                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:02:54 PM
                                                 Session 3   Federal and State Regulation of Investment Advisers and Their Representatives      239




                                  In April 2015, NASAA released a Model Rule dealing with business continuity
                             plans for state-registered investment advisers. In most respects, it mirrors FINRA Rule
                             4370 dealing with their member broker-dealers. The rule requires that every investment
                             adviser shall establish, implement, and maintain written procedures relating to a Business
                             Continuity and Succession Plan. The plan should be based upon the facts and circum-
                             stances of the investment adviser’s business model, including the size of the firm, type(s)
                             of services provided, and the number of locations of the investment adviser. The plan shall
                             provide for at least the following:
                                  1. The protection, backup, and recovery of books and records
                                  2.	Alternate means of communications with customers, key personnel, employees,
                                      vendors, service providers (including third-party custodians), and regulators,
                                      including, but not limited to, providing notice of a significant business interrup-
                                      tion or the death or unavailability of key personnel or other disruptions or cessa-
                                      tion of business activities
                                  3.	Office relocation in the event of temporary or permanent loss of a principal place
                                      of business
                                  4.	Assignment of duties to qualified responsible persons in the event of the death or
                                      unavailability of key personnel
                                  5.	Otherwise minimizing service disruptions and client harm that could result from a
                                      sudden significant business interruption


                   3. 24. 1 PURPOSE OF A BCP
                                 The most common purpose of a BCP is to have processes and procedures in place to
                             ensure that critical business functions can continue during and after a disaster or other
                             significant business interruption. BCPs outline actions advisers should take if utility out-
                             ages, catastrophic natural disasters, national emergencies, acts of terrorism, or other types
                             of disturbances disrupt day-to-day business operations. Advisers’ BCPs should reflect com-
                             prehensive approaches to reduce and manage risks associated with disasters, significant
                             business interruptions and work stoppages. All BCPs should include Succession Plans.
                             Advisers have a fiduciary duty to act in the best interest of their clients, and it is in the
                             best interest of clients for advisers to adopt a Succession Plan with procedures to ensure
                             continuity of services and the day-to-day operations of the business, or to smoothly wind
                             down advisers’ businesses in the event of death, disability, or incapacity. Without proper
                             planning, the unexpected loss of executives, key personnel, or owners can be disastrous to
                             the business and to clients.


                   3. 24. 2 SUCCESSION ISSUES
                                 Planning for an unexpected succession situation is an important part of a BCP. While
                             there are some succession issues that apply to every adviser (e.g., every Adviser needs a
                             designated regulatory contact person), each adviser must also tailor its Succession Plan to
                             the adviser’s needs. An adviser’s business entity structure will affect the types of items that
                             should be addressed in the adviser’s Succession Plan.
                                 For example, in a sole proprietorship, the client’s legal relationship is with the sole
                             proprietor, who is often the only investment adviser representative. With the death or
                             permanent disability of the IAR, the sole proprietorship itself may legally terminate as an




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 239                                                                                                               7/15/2016 2:02:54 PM
     240        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                 entity, as would any powers of attorney, advisory contracts, and other client agreements.
                                 The deceased (or otherwise incapacitated) sole proprietor is likely to be the only regula-
                                 tory contact and may be the only person who would be able to access electronic client files
                                 or authorize rebates of prepaid fees. There are many additional issues, such as probate, that
                                 are unique to sole proprietorships and that affect the implementation of a Succession Plan.
                                 Therefore, the adviser should have a Succession Plan that will immediately address these
                                 issues when an IAR becomes unavailable. Regardless of who takes over, a person cannot
                                 provide advisory services for compensation unless she is registered with the state’s securi-
                                 ties regulator(s) or exempt from registration.
                                      Advisers should consider the following items when drafting a Succession Plan to
                                 ensure that the Succession Plan adequately accounts for the risks related to the business
                                 entity.
                                 ■■ Are the clients’ investment advisory contracts with an individual or a legal entity?
                                 ■■ Does an IAR’s death or unavailability affect the advisory agreement?




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 240                                                                                                       7/15/2016 2:02:54 PM
                                                      Session 3   Federal and State Regulation of Investment Advisers and Their Representatives       241




                        Q U I C K          Q U I Z          A N S W E R S

                   Quick Quiz 3.A                                                   Quick Quiz 3.C

                      1. B.   This is the term used in both the federal                1. A.      Advisers who only service insurance
                              and state law. OSJ is a FINRA term and                              companies are exempt, as are advisers
                              has no relevance to investment advisers. In                         performing intrastate who do not give advice
                              fact, it may be the home office or executive                        on listed securities (municipal bonds are not
                              office, but the exam will be looking for their                      listed). Advising banks only does not qualify
                              definition.                                                         one for the exemption.

                   Quick Quiz 3.B                                                   Quick Quiz 3.D

                      1. B.   The act specifically excludes accountants,               1. B.      Publishers of newspapers and magazines
                              lawyers, any professional engineer                                  of general circulation that offer general
                              (aeronautical, civil, mechanical, or others),                       financial advice need not register.
                              and teachers. Economists are not included in
                              this listing.                                            2. A.      Broker-dealers must register as investment
                                                                                                  advisers if they receive special or separate
                      2. B.   There is an exclusion from the definition for                       compensation for giving investment advice.
                              all banks, regardless of what they do. Also
                              excluded are persons whose advice relates                3. A.      An investment adviser that manages less
                              only to securities that are direct obligations                      than $100 million in assets must register as
                              of or guaranteed by the United States—it                            an investment adviser under the USA. If the
                              makes no difference who their clients are.                          client is an investment company registered
                              A geologist is not excluded because the                             under the Investment Company Act of
                              law only specifies 4 professional exclusions:                       1940, registration with the SEC is mandatory
                              accountants, attorneys, engineers, and                              regardless of amount under management.
                              teachers.
                                                                                       4. C.      This is the straightforward definition of
                      3. C.   Publishers of general circulation newspapers                        an IA. Yes, an IA does act in a fiduciary
                              and magazines are excluded from the                                 capacity, but are all fiduciaries investment
                              definition of investment adviser, even if the                       advisers? No.
                              entire publication is devoted to investment
                                                                                       5. B.      Unless some kind of exemption applies, an
                              advice. An important key here is that it
                                                                                                  investment adviser must register on the state
                              is published regularly, not upon market
                                                                                                  level if it manages less than $100 million
                              events. A broker-dealer loses its exclusion
                                                                                                  in assets. Publishers of general circulation
                              the moment it offers advice for a separate
                                                                                                  books are exempt from state registration,
                              charge, as does an attorney who holds
                                                                                                  as are advisers with no offices in the state
                              herself out as offering investment advice.
                                                                                                  whose only customers are institutions, such
                              Normally, a teacher is excluded, but not
                                                                                                  as banks and investment companies, in the
                              when charging for advice as would appear to
                                                                                                  state. Investment advisers with $110 million
                              be the case here. On this examination, the
                                                                                                  or more in assets under management
                              term comprehensive financial planning always
                                                                                                  must register with the SEC, not the state
                              includes securities advice.
                                                                                                  Administrator regardless of offices in the
                      4. B    Only those individuals in the business of                           state and the type of clientele being served.
                              giving advice on securities are required to
                              register as investment advisers; only the
                              convertible bonds are securities.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 241                                                                                                                        7/15/2016 2:02:54 PM
        242        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition



        Quick Quiz 3.E                                                       Quick Quiz 3.G

           1. A.       Because Mr. Oldman has been responsible                 1. B.   Advisers maintaining discretion over client
                       for updating the ADV, it is logical to assume                   accounts are required to have a minimum net
                       that he is the contact person for information                   worth of $10,000. No, we haven’t covered
                       regarding the form. His sudden retirement                       the information dealing with choice D yet,
                       means the firm would have to appoint a new                      but this is a good opportunity to learn a test-
                       contact person. This is a change that the                       taking technique. You will sometimes find
                       SEC deems necessary to promptly amend of                        an answer choice you have never heard of
                       the Form ADV. Amendments to the ADV                             before. It might be correct, especially if it
                       may not be done using Form ADV-W—that                           is an “all of these are true except” question.
                       is for withdrawal only.                                         But, don’t pick an answer just because
                                                                                       you don’t know what it means. And, in a
           2. D.       Any entity meeting the definition of a person                   question like this, where you should have
                       would be eligible to file for registration as an                easily spotted that the correct net worth is
                       investment adviser on Form ADV.                                 $10,000 instead of $35,000, before you go on
                                                                                       to the next question, make a mental note (or
        Quick Quiz 3.F
                                                                                       write down on the pad given to you), the fact
           1. C.       In order to use the term investment counsel, 2                  you learn from choice D—it might show up
                       criteria must be met— the principal business                    on another question.
                       must be giving investment advice and the                2. C.   Under the USA, an investment adviser
                       adviser must provide investment supervisory                     exercising discretion over client accounts
                       services. Running model portfolios for clients                  must maintain minimum net worth of
                       would meet both requirements. The financial                     $10,000. If the adviser falls below that
                       planner is not principally in the business                      minimum, it must notify the Administrator
                       of offering investment advice because he                        by the close of business the following day.
                       describes his service as offering a wide range                  Then, a complete financial report must be
                       of services, of which advice is only one part.                  furnished to the Administrator by the close
                       The exam frequently uses that wording to                        of business the day following the sending of
                       indicate that advice is not the principal                       the notice. Unless otherwise instructed by
                       activity. While the publisher’s principal                       the Administrator, the firm may continue to
                       business activ­ity may be offering advice,                      exercise discretion.
                       nothing about the description indicates
                       that individual client accounts are being               3. C.   The USA requires advisers who take custody
                       monitored.                                                      to maintain a minimum net worth of
                                                                                       $35,000. Any Administrator is empowered
           2. B.       Reasons for cancellation do not include                         to change that number, higher or lower. As
                       dropping below a minimum number of                              long as an investment adviser meets the net
                       clients. Revocation of registration is usually                  worth requirements of the state where its
                       connected with some form of disciplinary                        principal office is located, there is no need
                       action. Insolvency is not cause for revocation                  to be concerned about any other state’s
                       or cancellation under the Investment                            requirements.
                       Advisers Act of 1940, although it is cause
                       under the Uniform Securities Act.                       4. D.   Whenever there is a material change to the
                                                                                       information contained in the registration
                                                                                       application of a securities professional, the
                                                                                       Administrator must be promptly notified.
                                                                                       Marital status is not included on the Form
                                                                                       U-4. Federal covered investment advisers are
                                                                                       not under the Administrator’s jurisdiction.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 242                                                                                                               7/15/2016 2:02:54 PM
                                                      Session 3   Federal and State Regulation of Investment Advisers and Their Representatives       243



                   Quick Quiz 3.H                                                      7. C.      Clerical and ministerial personnel are
                                                                                                  specifically excluded from the definition
                      1. F.   An investment adviser (not the investment                           of investment adviser representative.
                              adviser representative) must register with                          Specifically included in the definition are
                              the SEC if the firm manages assets of                               directors, officers, partners, associates, and
                              $110 million or more. As a representative                           employees of state registered advisers who
                              of a federal covered investment adviser, the                        carry out investment advisory or solicitation
                              individual would have to be registered as an                        functions or who supervise those functions.
                              investment adviser representative in each                           Also included in the definition are persons
                              state where she maintains a place of business.                      who perform similar functions for SEC-
                                                                                                  registered advisers and who have a place of
                      2. T.   An adviser maintaining custody, whether                             business in the state. Once there is a place of
                              or not discretion is involved, is generally                         business in the state, the de minimis rule no
                              required to maintain a net worth of $35,000.                        longer applies.
                      3. F.   An employee of an investment advisory firm            Quick Quiz 3.I
                              is not an investment adviser representative if
                              his duties are confined to clerical activities.          1. D.      This is the exception, since the records must
                                                                                                  be kept for 5 years. Nothing in the question
                      4. F.   Any administrative employee who receives
                                                                                                  asked about the 2-year requirement in the
                              specific compensation for offering investment
                                                                                                  office. The 5-year requirement is that records
                              advisory services is considered an investment
                                                                                                  be easily accessible whether in the office or
                              adviser representative.
                                                                                                  not.
                      5. T.   Any employee of an investment advisory
                                                                                       2. D.      Records of an investment adviser must be
                              firm is an investment adviser representative
                                                                                                  maintained for five years. Records are subject
                              if his duties involve making investment
                                                                                                  to surprise audits by the state Administrator,
                              recommendations.
                                                                                                  written records may be reduced to microfilm,
                      6. A.   A financial planning firm or other                                  and records originally created on a company’s
                              person that, as an integral component                               computer may be stored in electronic media.
                              of other financially related services,
                                                                                    Quick Quiz 3. J
                              provides investment advisory services for
                              compensation is an investment adviser.                   1. D.      An adviser to investment companies and
                              A publisher of a bona fide newspaper,                               an adviser who provides only impersonal
                              news magazine, or business or financial                             advisory services are specifically listed as
                              publication of general and regular circulation                      being exempt from the delivery requirements
                              and a federal covered investment adviser                            of the brochure rule (impersonal advice with
                              are excluded from the definition of an                              a charge of $500 or more would require an
                              investment adviser. Obviously, if the                               offer to deliver). An adviser who provides
                              Administrator excludes a person from the                            advice only to insurance companies is
                              definition, they’re not going to have to                            exempt from registration as an invest­ment
                              register. Likewise, if the Administrator were                       adviser and therefore would also be exempt
                              to include that person, registration would be                       from the require­ments of the brochure.
                              required.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 243                                                                                                                        7/15/2016 2:02:54 PM
        244        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition



           2. D.       Delivery of the ADV Part 2A, or brochure,             Quick Quiz 3.K
                       must be made to each client no later than the
                       commencement of the advisory agreement.                 1. A.   Under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940,
                       If the adviser wishes to deliver prior to that,                 discretion and substantial prepayments are
                       there is no problem, but it is not required.                    not considered custody. Access to funds in
                       For a state registered adviser, there is a                      the client’s account is one of the standard
                       requirement to deliver the brochure at least                    tenets of custody.
                       48 hours in advance, unless the contract calls
                       for a penalty-free termination. The ADV                 2. C.   If an IA is registered or is registering with
                       Part 1 is used when registering and is not                      one or more of the state securities authorities,
                       furnished to clients.                                           the dollar amount reporting threshold for
                                                                                       including the required balance sheet is more
           3. D.       This is one of the purposes of ADV Part 2B,                     than $500 in fees per client, six months
                       the brochure supplement. Justification for                      or more in advance. Unlike the federal
                       SEC registration is based on assets under                       law, under state law, a balance sheet is also
                       management, not the number of clients, and                      required whenever the IA maintains custody
                       the brochure is not required to disclose the                    of client assets. When the custodian is an
                       number of clients served by the investment                      affiliated broker-dealer (as in this case),
                       adviser.                                                        the balance sheet requirement is triggered.
                                                                                       When the only reason one is considered to
           4. D.       The balance sheet is required only when the                     have custody is automatic debiting of fees,
                       adviser receives prepayments in excess of                       the balance sheet is not normally required.
                       $1,200 for periods of 6 months or longer—                       Yes, there are certain conditions to be met
                       not for those maintaining custody. If this had                  to qualify for this exception, but on the
                       been a state registered adviser, the conditions                 exam, in a question like this, you may assume
                       are different in that the substantial                           they’re met.
                       prepayment amount requiring a balance
                       sheet is $500 instead of $1,200 and NASAA               3. A.   Taking custody is considered to be of
                       Model Rules also require a balance sheet                        such significance that it requires prompt
                       to all clients for whom the IA maintains                        notification to the Administrator by
                       custody.                                                        the investment adviser by updating the
                                                                                       Form ADV. Using a qualified custodian still
           5. D.       The brochure rule requires that each client                     constitutes a form of custody and requires
                       be given a written disclosure statement                         notification to the Administrator.
                       by the adviser no later than the time of
                       entering into the advisory agreement. It                4. B.   Whether custody is maintained by the
                       may consist of a copy of Part 2A and 2B of                      investment adviser itself or by a qualified
                       Form ADV or another document providing                          custodian, statements must be sent at least
                       similar information. There are no minimum                       quarterly.
                       net worth requirements for SEC registered
                       investment advisers.                                    5. D.   If the adviser does not return the securities to
                                                                                       the sender within 3 business days, the adviser
                                                                                       not only has actual custody, but has also
                                                                                       violated the rule’s requirement that client
                                                                                       securities be maintained in an account with a
                                                                                       qualified custodian.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 244                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:02:54 PM
                                                      Session 3   Federal and State Regulation of Investment Advisers and Their Representatives       245



                      6. A.   NASAA lists 3 acceptable qualified                    Quick Quiz 3.M
                              custodians. They are (1) a bank or savings
                              association that has deposits insured by the             1. B.      Hedge clauses may not be used to disclaim
                              Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation under                         statements that are inherently misleading.
                              the Federal Deposit Insurance Act; (2) a
                              registered broker-dealer holding the client              2. C.      The regulators have not objected to
                              assets in customer accounts; and (3) a foreign                      clauses that limit the investment adviser’s
                              financial institution that customarily holds                        liability for losses caused by conditions
                              financial assets for its customers, provided                        and events beyond its control, such
                              that the foreign financial institution keeps                        as war, strikes, natural disasters, new
                              the advisory clients’ assets in customer                            government restrictions, market fluctuations,
                              accounts segregated from its proprietary                            communications disruptions, and so forth.
                              assets.                                                             Such provisions are acceptable since they do
                                                                                                  not attempt to limit or misstate the adviser’s
                      7. C.   Under the NASAA Model Custody Rule,                                 fiduciary obligations to its clients. Limiting
                              whenever an investment adviser receives                             liability to acts done in bad faith might
                              customer checks made payable to an                                  cause the unsophisticated client to fail to
                              unrelated third party, failure to forward                           understand that he still has a right to take
                              the check to that third party within 3                              action, even when the acts are committed in
                              business days of receipt is considered to be                        good faith. Fiduciary responsibility cannot be
                              maintaining custody. Unlike the other cases                         limited by hedge clauses.
                              where the money or securities are returned
                              to the client, third party checks must be             Quick Quiz 3.N
                              forwarded.
                                                                                       1. C.      Investment advisers never file anything with
                      8. D.   Surety bonds are never required under the                           the SEC unless it relates to Form ADV. Past
                              Investment Advisers Act of 1940, although                           specific recommendations may be shown as
                              they may be required under the Uniform                              long as they include all recommendations
                              Securities Act. The audit must be a surprise.                       covering at least the prior 12-month period
                              The adviser only informs the client about                           and contain a disclaimer regarding any
                              the client’s securities, not everybody else’s                       assurance of future results.
                              securities held by the adviser.
                                                                                       2. C.      With its principal office in New Jersey,
                   Quick Quiz 3.L                                                                 PPA only has to meet the financial and
                                                                                                  recordkeeping requirements of that state.
                      1. A.   Material disciplinary violations must be                            However, any business done in Connecticut,
                              reported by all investment advisers, regardless                     including advertising, comes under that
                              of whether they keep custody. The first 2                           state’s jurisdiction. SEC requirements are
                              answers fit the definition of material actions,                     bogus because this is not a federal covered
                              but not the third. If the suit goes in favor                        adviser and the Administrator of any state in
                              of the client and the adviser is found guilty,                      which the IA is registered can pull a surprise
                              disclosure would need to be made. However,                          visit during business hours.
                              there is something that investment advisers
                              who do not maintain custody or receive                   3. A.      One of the criteria for using the term
                              substantial prepayments avoid having to do.                         investment counsel is that the adviser’s
                              What is that? They do not have to notify                            primary business is providing investment
                              their clients about any financial situation                         advice. It is always prohibited to make
                              that might impair their ability to meet                             an untrue statement, whether or not the
                              contractual commitments to clients.                                 fact is material, and one can never imply
                                                                                                  government approval of one’s abilities.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 245                                                                                                                        7/15/2016 2:02:55 PM
        246        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition



           4. A.       An investment adviser may never put his                 3. A.   An adviser’s fee may not be based on
                       own interests before those of customers. The                    portfolio appreciation or capital gains, except
                       Investment Advisers Act of 1940 does not                        under certain circumstances that are not
                       prohibit employment with a broker-dealer                        detailed in the question. Advisory fees may
                       and serving as an investment adviser. Any                       be based on a percentage of assets under
                       conflict of interests must be disclosed to the                  management. There should be no question
                       client. An adviser is not prohibited from                       on the exam where “waiving” something will
                       investing in the same securities transactions                   be permitted.
                       as recommended to clients.
                                                                               4. D.   Under the Uniform Securities Act, custody
           5. B.       It is permissible to post general information                   indicates that the adviser has physical
                       about an investment adviser on a public                         possession over its clients’ certificates and
                       website, which comes under the definition                       monies. If there is a rule prohibiting it,
                       of advertising. Advertising implies that the                    no investment adviser registered in that
                       publisher of the material has no control over                   state can act in contravention of that rule.
                       who may view it. Thus, recommendations                          A prohibition against custody in a given
                       of specific securities, including managed                       state does not prohibit the adviser from
                       products, are prohibited because it is                          holding investment discretion over clients’
                       not possible to determine the suitability                       accounts, provided such discretion is granted
                       of specific investments for unknown                             under a suitable authorization or power
                       viewers. The SEC and NASAA prohibit                             of attorney. Merely examining customers’
                       client testimonials in investment adviser                       stock certificates is certainly not the same
                       advertising.                                                    as holding custody or possession of such
                                                                                       certificates. As long as the affiliation is
        Quick Quiz 3.O                                                                 disclosed, there is nothing improper about an
                                                                                       IA referring advisory clients to that affiliated
           1. C.       A client’s contracts, whether written or oral                   BD.
                       (technically, the Investment Advisers Act of
                       1940 does not require written contracts), may         Quick Quiz 3.P
                       not be assigned without the client’s consent
                       under any circumstances. If the adviser is a            1. B.   To make cash payments to solicitors, the
                       partnership, notice must be made to clients                     agreement must:
                       of any changes in the membership of the                         ■■     be in writing;
                       partnership within a reasonable period. It is
                                                                                       ■■     provide for disclosure of any affiliations
                       always permitted to charge a fee based on the
                                                                                              between the adviser and the solicitor
                       average value of assets under management.                              (unless the solicitation is being made
           2. B.       The addition of 2 equal partners to a                                  for imper­sonal advisory service);
                       5‑person firm does not constitute a majority                    ■■     provide that no one subject to statutory
                       change so all that is necessary is notice                              disqualification be com­pensated;
                       within a reasonable period of time, not                         ■■     follow a script approved by the adviser;
                       consent. In the case of a corporation, a                               and
                       change in stock ownership is never required                     ■■    provide that, in addition to the advis-
                       to be disclosed unless there is an actual                             er’s brochure, a solicitor brochure be
                       change to the control or management                                   delivered as well (3rd party).
                       of the adviser and such is not indicated              		        Nothing in the rules refers at all to how
                       here. Pledging a majority stock interest in                     much of the adviser’s time must be spent
                       an adviser structured as a corporation is                       giving advice. The only time there is a
                       considered an assignment and, therefore,                        requirement that a substantial portion of the
                       requires client consent.                                        adviser’s business be giving investment advice
                                                                                       is when using the term investment counsel.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 246                                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:02:55 PM
                                                       Session 3   Federal and State Regulation of Investment Advisers and Their Representatives       247



                      2. B.   The Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and                   3. B.      The SEC requires prior written discretionary
                              the associated SEC rules do not require the                          authorization, whereas The NASAA Model
                              solicitor to register as an investment adviser                       Rule on Unethical Business Practices Of
                              representative as long as the solicitor’s                            Investment Advisers, Investment Adviser
                              activities are strictly limited to merely                            Representatives, and Federal Covered
                              referring clients to a registered investment                         Advisers only requires that the written
                              adviser in compliance with SEC rules.                                document be received no later than 10
                              However, the majority of state securities                            business days after the first transaction in
                              regulators define the solicitation or referral of                    the account. Discretionary orders must be
                              investment advisory clients as an investment                         promptly reviewed, but not before placing
                              advisory activity requiring the registration                         the order. Even with the NSMIA, the
                              of the solicitor as an investment adviser                            Administrator has the power to take action
                              or investment adviser representative. But                            against any federal covered adviser operating
                              remember to read the question—it only asks                           in the state where there is a belief that
                              about the federal law.                                               fraudulent action has taken place.

                   Quick Quiz 3.Q                                                       4. B.      Full-service brokerage firms often provide
                                                                                                   research reports, securities and portfolio
                      1. C.   Section 28(e) provides a safe harbor for those                       analysis, and special reports without specific
                              expenses paid with soft dollars that offer a                         charges, but are usually compensated by their
                              direct research benefit. Rent is not included                        higher commissions. Nothing in industry
                              in the list of acceptable items coming under                         rules prevents an adviser from using a full-
                              that safe harbor.                                                    service broker to effect customer transactions.
                                                                                                   However, it would be unethical if the adviser
                      2. D.   Soft-dollar compensation is when an                                  were to benefit personally from the direction
                              investment adviser derives an economic                               of the client business.
                              benefit from the use of a client’s commission
                              dollars. Software of the type mentioned here
                              is allowable under the safe harbor provisions
                              of Section 28(e) of the Securities Exchange
                              Act of 1934. It is true that this is indirect
                              compensation and that this is a discretionary
                              account, but the answer that best matches
                              the question is soft dollar. Many times on the
                              exam, you have to select best of the choices
                              given.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 247                                                                                                                         7/15/2016 2:02:55 PM
        248        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition



        Quick Quiz 3.R                                                       Quick Quiz 3.S

           1. C.       The USA does not require investment                    1. D.   Although any securities professional
                       advisers to include in their contracts a list                  handing a customer account is obligated to
                       of those states in which they are licensed to                  follow all necessary procedures to protect
                       do business. The USA does require advisers                     client data, customers themselves also bear
                       to include their method of computing fees,                     a responsibility. Customers ignoring the
                       a statement prohibiting assignment without                     cybersecurity safeguards put not only their
                       client consent, and notification of change in                  own data at risk, but also that of other
                       membership of the investment partnership.                      customers, by potentially opening the door to
                                                                                      hackers.
           2. F.       An Administrator may, by rule or order,
                       prevent an adviser from taking custody.                2. A.   It is hard to imagine how the music on hold
                       If an Administrator prevents custody, an                       would present a security risk. All of the
                       adviser cannot overrule the Administrator by                   others clearly offer potential for loss.
                       notifying the Administrator first.
                                                                              3. D.   An investment adviser (or broker-dealer)
           3. F.       An adviser may sell securities to clients from                 must give a customer 30 days to implement
                       its own account provided disclosure is made                    any opt-out provision in the privacy notice.
                       upon receipt of consent from the client
                       before completion of the trade.

           4. T.       Investment advisers are bound by the
                       regulations that apply to sales activities as
                       well as those that apply to advisory activities.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 248                                                                                                            7/15/2016 2:02:55 PM
                                                                                                            Unit 1   Unit Test       249




                        U N I T        T E S T

                     1. The Securities Act of 1933 covers which of the      5. Under the Securities Act of 1933, the SEC
                        following?                                             A. approves securities registered with it
                         I. The sale of new issues to the public               B. attempts to make certain that all pertinent
                        II. The use of deficiency letters                         information is fully disclosed
                       III. Insider trading                                    C. passes on the investment merit of the security
                       IV. Trading on national securities exchanges            D. guarantees that the statements made in the
                        A. I and II                                               prospectus and registration statement are
                        B. I, III and IV                                          accurate
                        C. III and IV
                        D. I, II, III and IV                                6. An exemption from registration under the Securi-
                                                                               ties Act of 1933 is available to securities that are
                     2. All of the following are exempt from registration      A. offered to the public only when the total
                        under the Securities Act of 1933 EXCEPT                     amount is more than $4 million
                        A. an intrastate offering                              B. sold in more than one state by persons resi­
                        B. a Regulation D offering                                  dent in those states
                        C. a U.S. government security                          C. sold only to persons resident in one state when
                        D. an interstate offering of preferred stock                the issuer is a resident doing business within
                                                                                    that state
                     3. A broker-dealer effecting transactions in a dis­       D. listed on national exchanges
                        cretionary account that are excessive in size or
                        frequency in view of the financial resources and    7. Among the groups and organizations required to
                        character of the account is considered to be           register with the SEC by the Securities Exchange
                                                                               Act of 1934 are
                        A. churning
                        B. matching orders                                     A. corporations with listed securities
                        C. pegging, fixing, and stabilizing                    B. securities exchanges and securities traded on
                        D. successful                                              exchanges
                                                                               C. brokers and dealers operating in interstate
                     4. Under which of the following cases could an agent          commerce and national securities associations
                        offer a security for sale?                             D. all of the above
                         I. A registration statement has been filed with
                                                                            8. A principal purpose of the Securities Exchange
                            the SEC but has not yet become effective.
                                                                               Act of 1934 is generally considered to be to
                        II. A registration statement has been filed with
                            the SEC and has become effective.                  A. establish specific statutory standards for
                       III. The agent is aware of negotiations going on           contractual agreements between corporations
                            between an issuer and the employing broker-           issuing bonds and the representatives
                            dealer’s investment banking department.               of investors who own the bonds
                                                                               B. protect the public against unfair and
                        A. I and II
                                                                                  inequitable practices in the over-the-counter
                        B. I and III
                                                                                  market and on stock exchanges
                        C. II only
                                                                               C. reimburse customers of failed broker-dealers
                        D. II and III
                                                                               D. establish standards to govern activities of
                                                                                  organizations that engage in the business of
                                                                                  providing securities investment advice




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 249                                                                                                       7/15/2016 2:02:55 PM
        250        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition



          9. Under federal law, an application for becoming an               13. Which of the following statements under the
             associated person of a broker-dealer would be de-                   Investment Company Act of 1940 are TRUE?
             nied for an individual                                               I. Holding companies are not included in the
              I. convicted of a felony 122 months ago                                definition of an investment company.
             II. pleading no contest to a misdemeanor                            II. Investment companies are prohibited from
                 involving a financial matter 65 months ago                          owning more than 3% of another investment
            III. accused of a securities-related felony                              company’s shares.
                 110 months ago                                                 III. Mutual funds must file semiannual reports
             A. I and II                                                             with their shareholders and the SEC.
             B. I and III                                                        A. I and II
             C. II only                                                          B. I and III
             D. II and III                                                       C. II and III
                                                                                 D. I, II and III
        10. A manufacturing company whose debt securi-
            ties are consistently rated AAA wishes to issue                  14. A securities salesperson may indicate to a pro­
            $20 million in 6-month commercial paper. The                         spective customer that the SEC has approved a
            proceeds will be used to acquire the latest in com-                  securities issue if
            puter-controlled lathes. Under the Securities Act                    A. the SEC has not initiated action against either
            of 1933, this issue                                                      the company or the underwriters of the issue
            A. is exempt from registration                                       B. the SEC has not opened an investigation of
            B. is not exempt from registration                                       the company, the underwriter, or the market
            C. would only be exempt from registration if the                         makers of the security
                 denominations were a minimum of $50,000                         C. a registration statement is in effect with the
            D. is straddling a commingled arbitrage                                  SEC
                                                                                 D. none of the above
        11. The Investment Company Act of 1940 permits a
            reduction in sales charge when reaching a break-                 15. It would be most CORRECT to state that, as de-
            point for                                                            fined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, a
            A. a designated agent of an investment club                          securities information processor
            B. purchasers meeting the definition of any person                   A. clears trades made on regulated stock
            C. clients of fee-only investment advisers                               exchanges
            D. a mother and her 35-year-old son purchasing                       B. distributes information on trades or quotations
                separate accounts                                                    for nonexempt securities
                                                                                 C. processes information provided by the SEC
        12. Among the provisions of the Investment Com-                          D. secures the information necessary to process a
            pany Act of 1940 designed to protect the interests                       trade
            of investors is the provision that
            A. any change in fundamental investment policy                   16. Which of the following terms are defined in the
                 must be approved by stockholders                                Securities Exchange Act of 1934?
            B. communications with the public must be                             I. Securities information processor
                 approved by FINRA before its use                                II. Transfer agent
            C. selection of company investments must be                         III. Market maker
                 approved by SEC                                                IV. Prospectus
            D. for diversification purposes, an investment                       A. I and II
                 company may own up to 10% of the shares of                      B. I and III
                 another investment company                                      C. I, II and III
                                                                                 D. I, II, III and IV




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 250                                                                                                            7/15/2016 2:02:55 PM
                                                                                                               Unit 1 Unit Test       251



                   17. Which of the following statements may NOT be           21. Which of the following would be an agent as the
                       made by an agent in regard to a security regis­tered       term is defined in the Uniform Securities Act?
                       with the SEC under the Act of 1933?                         I. A representative of a licensed broker-dealer
                       A. “The SEC has approved of this issue and that’s              who sells securities to the general public
                           why I’m so glad to be able to offer it to you.”        II. An assistant to the president of a broker-dealer
                       B. “This issue is lawful for sale.”                            who accepts orders on behalf of the senior
                       C. “This issue is suitable for you on the basis of             partners
                           your objectives and the personal profile you          III. A subsidiary of a major commercial bank
                           have provided me.”                                         registered as a broker-dealer that sells
                       D. None the above.                                             securities to the public
                                                                                 IV. An issuer of nonexempt securities registered in
                   18. Under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the                 the state and sold to the general public
                       term municipal security would include a(n)                 A. I and II
                        I. New Jersey Turnpike revenue bond                       B. I, II and III
                       II. Illinois Tool Company debt issue backed by             C. III and IV
                           their full faith and credit                            D. I, II, III and IV
                      III. State of Texas general obligation bond
                       A. I and II                                            22. A publicly traded corporation offers its employees
                       B. I and III                                               an opportunity to purchase shares of the com-
                       C. II and III                                              pany’s common stock directly from the issuer. A
                       D. I, II and III                                           specific employee of the company is designated to
                                                                                  process any orders for that stock. Under the USA,
                   19. Under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the             the employee
                       term municipal security would NOT include a(n)             A. must register as an agent of the issuer
                        I. City of Chicago school district bond                   B. need not register as an agent of the issuer
                       II. U.S. Treasury Bill                                         under any circumstances
                      III. Province of Ontario library construction bond          C. may receive commissions without registration
                                                                                  D. must register as an agent if commissions or
                       A. I and II
                                                                                      other remuneration will be received by the
                       B. I and III
                                                                                      employee, either directly or indirectly
                       C. II only
                       D. II and III
                                                                              23. Which of the following persons is defined as an
                                                                                  agent by the Uniform Securities Act?
                   20. There are certain circumstances under which cli-
                       ents might wish to give their agents discretionary         A. Silent partner of a broker-dealer
                       power over their account. An agent empowered to            B. Secretary of a branch office sales manager
                       do which of the following would be considered us-          C. Clerk at a broker-dealer who is authorized to
                       ing discretion?                                                take orders
                                                                                  D. President of the state university who sits on
                       A. Determining the specific price
                                                                                      the broker-dealer’s board of directors
                       B. Determining the specific time
                       C. Making the decisions in the account while
                                                                              24. Under the Uniform Securities Act, an agent is
                           awaiting delivery of the proper paperwork
                       D. Picking the specific security                           A. a broker-dealer who sells registered securities
                                                                                     to the general public
                                                                                  B. an individual who represents an issuer of a
                                                                                     security issued by a Canadian province
                                                                                  C. an individual representing a broker-dealer who
                                                                                     sells federal covered securities
                                                                                  D. an individual who represents an issuer in an
                                                                                     exempt transaction




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 251                                                                                                        7/15/2016 2:02:55 PM
        252        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition



        25. GEMCO Securities, a registered broker-dealer, has                29. Registration is effective when ordered by the Ad-
            a policy of hiring unpaid interns from top business                  ministrator in the case of registration by
            schools. GEMCO is currently the lead underwriter                     A. coordination
            on a new issue and has assigned three of its interns                 B. integration
            to specific tasks. One is doing entering the data as                 C. notice filing
            indications of interest are received, the second is                  D. qualification
            calling clients to offer to deliver their prospectus
            via email instead of mail, and the third is calling              30. Under the Uniform Securities Act, which of the
            clients to offer the new issue and accept indica-                    following would be considered an exempt transac-
            tions of interest. Which of the interns would need                   tion?
            to register as agents?
                                                                                  I. An existing client calls you to purchase 1,000
            A. Because they are not being compensated, none                           shares of a common stock that is not registered
                 of the interns need to register.                                     in this state
            B. The second and third interns would be                             II. At the suggestion of the agent handling her
                 required to register.                                                account, a client purchases some U.S. Treasury
            C. Only the third intern would have to register.                          bonds for inclusion in her IRA
            D. All of the interns would need to register.                       III. Shares of a bank’s IPO are sold to an
                                                                                      institutional client
        26. Under the USA, which of the following is consid-                    IV. Shares of an insurance company’s IPO are sold
            ered a broker-dealer in a state?                                          to an individual client
            A. First Federal Trust Company                                       A. I and III
            B. XYZ broker-dealer with an office in the state                     B. I, III, and IV
                whose only clients are insurance companies                       C. II and IV
            C. An agent effecting transactions for a broker-                     D. I, II, III, and IV
                dealer
            D. A broker-dealer with no place of business in                  31. A transactional exemption would be available un-
                the state who only does business with other                      der the USA when an agent for a broker-dealer
                broker-dealers in the state
                                                                                 A. sells a large block of an unregistered
                                                                                     nonexempt security to an individual who
        27. Which of the following is defined as a security un-
                                                                                     meets the definition of an accredited investor
            der the Uniform Securities Act?
                                                                                 B. sells a large block of an unregistered
            A. A guaranteed, lump-sum payment to a                                   nonexempt security to an insurance company
                beneficiary under a modified endowment                               that is not authorized to do business in this
                policy                                                               state
            B. Fixed, guaranteed payments made for life                          C. sells a retail client $10,000 of U.S. Treasury
                or for a specified period under an annuity                           bonds
                contract                                                         D. receives an unsolicited order from a client to
            C. Commodity futures contracts                                           purchase heating oil contracts
            D. An investment contract
                                                                             32. In general, registration statements for securities
        28. Under the Uniform Securities Act, which of the                       under the Uniform Securities Act are effective for
            following persons is responsible for proving that a
                                                                                 A. a period determined by the Administrator for
            securities issue is exempt from registration?
                                                                                     each issue
            A. Underwriter                                                       B. 1 year from the effective date
            B. The person requesting the exemption                               C. 1 year from the date of issue
            C. State Administrator                                               D. 1 year from the previous January 1
            D. There is no need to prove eligibility for an
                 exemption.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 252                                                                                                              7/15/2016 2:02:55 PM
                                                                                                                 Unit 1 Unit Test       253



                    33. Under the Uniform Securities Act, an issuer is any      35. Which of the following is(are) issuer transactions?
                        person who issues, or proposes to issue, a security          I. John inherited securities of the XYZ
                        for sale to the public. According to the USA,                   Corporation from his father who, as a founder
                        which of the following is NOT an issuer?                        to the company, received the shares directly
                         I. The City of Chicago, which is involved                      from the company as a result of stock options.
                             in a distribution of tax-exempt highway                II. John sold the securities he had inherited from
                             improvement bonds                                          his father to his neighbor, Peter, at the market
                        II. A partner in the AAA Oil and Gas                            price without charging a commission.
                             Partnership sells his interest in the investment      III. John’s father, a founder of XYZ corporation,
                       III. The AAA Manufacturing Company, which                        purchased shares of XYZ directly from the
                             proposes to offer shares to the public but has             corporation subsequent to its founding
                             not completed the offering                                 without paying a commission.
                       IV. The U.S. government, which proposes to offer            IV. John purchased shares in XYZ Corporation in
                             Treasury bonds                                             a transaction made in the over-the-counter
                        A. I only                                                       market.
                        B. II only                                                  A. I only
                        C. I, II, and III                                           B. I and II
                        D. I, II, and IV                                            C. III only
                                                                                    D. I, II, III, and IV
                    34. Which of the following transactions are exempt
                        from registration under the USA?                        36. Section 402 of the USA contains a listing of those
                         I. A trustee of a corporation in bankruptcy                securities that are granted an exemption from the
                            liquidates securities to satisfy debt holders.          registration and advertising filing requirements of
                        II. An offer of a securities investment is directed         the Act. Included in that listing would be
                            to 10 individuals in the state during a                  I. corporate debentures
                            12‑month consecutive period.                            II. bonds issued by a Canadian province
                       III. A sale of securities by the trustee of the             III. bonds issued by the District of Columbia
                            Lorgan Family Children’s Trust.                        IV. securities issued by a credit union authorized
                       IV. Agents for an entrepreneur offer pre-                        to do business in the state
                            organization certificates to fewer than                 A. I, II, III, and IV
                            10 investors in the state for a modest                  B. I and IV
                            commission.                                             C. II, III, and IV
                        A. I and II                                                 D. II and IV
                        B. I, III, and IV
                        C. II and IV                                            37. Under the USA, the Administrator may bring an
                        D. I and IV                                                 action against an agent’s registration if the agent
                                                                                     I. borrows money from his wealthy clients’
                                                                                        accounts
                                                                                    II. solicits orders for nonexempt unregistered
                                                                                        securities
                                                                                   III. buys and sells securities in accounts to
                                                                                        generate a high level of commissions
                                                                                   IV. alters market quotations to induce a client to
                                                                                        invest in an attractive growth stock
                                                                                    A. I, II, and III
                                                                                    B. I and III
                                                                                    C. I and IV
                                                                                    D. I, II, III, and IV




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 253                                                                                                          7/15/2016 2:02:55 PM
        254        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition



        38. According to the USA, which of the following is                  42. Fearing loss of a potential sale, an agent omits facts
            an example of market manipulation?                                   that a prudent investor requires to make informed
            A. Creating the illusion of active trading                           decisions. Under the Uniform Securities Act, this
            B. Omitting material facts in a presentation                         action is
            C. Guaranteeing performance of a security                            A. fraudulent for nonexempt securities only
            D. Transactions in excess of a customer’s financial                  B. fraudulent for exempt securities only
                capability                                                       C. fraudulent for both exempt and nonexempt
                                                                                     securities
        39. Which of the following practices is prohibited                       D. not fraudulent if there was willful intent to
            under the Uniform Securities Act?                                        omit the information
            A. Actively trading a security in which an
               unusually high trading volume has occurred                    43. According to the USA, which of the following is a
            B. Offering services that an agent cannot                            prohibited activity?
               realistically perform because of his                              A. An agent enters into an agreement to
               broker-dealer’s limitations                                           share in the profits/losses of the customer’s
            C. Altering the customer’s order prior to                                account without prior written consent of the
               execution at the request of a customer, which                         employing broker-dealer.
               subsequently results in a substantial loss                        B. An agent and spouse jointly own their own
            D. Failing to inform the firm’s principal of                             personal trading account at the firm.
               frequent oral customer complaints                                 C. An agent, with the written authorization of
                                                                                     the customer and the broker-dealer that the
        40. If an agent thought that a technology stock was                          agent represents, participates in the profits and
            undervalued and actively solicited all customers,                        losses of the account.
            the agent                                                            D. An agent refuses a client’s request to share in
            A. did not violate the USA if all material facts                         the performance of the client’s account.
                 were disclosed
            B. committed an unethical sales practice because                 44. Under the Uniform Securities Act, broker-dealers
                 the firm has not recommended this technology                    are required to prepare and maintain certain re-
                 stock                                                           cords. Which of the following statements reflects
            C. committed an unethical business practice                          the position of the act?
            D. did not commit a violation if all clients were                     I. A firm registered in more than one state must
                 accurately informed of the price of the stock                        meet the recordkeeping requirements of the
                                                                                      state where its principal office is located, even
        41. Which of the following actions taken by an agent                          if those are less comprehensive than those of
            are prohibited?                                                           some of the other states where it is registered.
             I. Borrowing money or securities from a high                        II. A firm must maintain records of every email
                net-worth customer                                                    sent from the office by agents.
            II. Selling speculative issues to a retired couple of               III. A broker-dealer’s website is considered
                modest means on a fixed income                                        advertising.
           III. Failing to follow a customer’s orders so as                     IV. Once a broker-dealer’s trade blotter has been
                to prevent investment in a security not                               posted, it may be discarded.
                adequately covered by well-known securities                      A. I and II
                analysts                                                         B. I and III
           IV. Backdating confirmations for the benefit of                       C. II and IV
                the client’s tax reporting                                       D. III and IV
            A. I and II
            B. I, II, and III
            C. II and III
            D. I, II, III, and IV




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 254                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:02:56 PM
                                                                                                                Unit 1 Unit Test       255



                    45. Aaron is a client of XYZ Financial Services. Over      48. If it is in the public interest, the Uniform Securi-
                        the past several years, Aaron has been suspicious          ties Act provides that the state Administrator
                        of possible churning of his account, but has taken         may deny the registration of a person for all of the
                        no action because account performance has been             following reasons EXCEPT
                        outstanding. After reviewing his most recent state-        A. the applicant is not qualified owing to lack of
                        ment, Aaron suspects that excessive transactions                 experience
                        have occurred. He consults his attorney, who               B. a willful violation of the Uniform Securities
                        informs him that under the USA, any lawsuit                      Act has taken place
                        for recovery of damages under the USA must be              C. the applicant is financially insolvent
                        started within                                             D. the applicant is enjoined temporarily from
                        A. 1 year of occurrence                                          engaging in the securities business
                        B. 2 years of occurrence
                        C. 3 years of occurrence or 2 years of discovery,      49. If an agent chooses to appeal an Administrator’s
                             whichever occurs first                                order, when must the agent file for review of the
                        D. 2 years of occurrence or 3 years of discovery,          order with the appropriate court?
                             whichever occurs last                                 A. Immediately
                                                                                   B. Within 30 days after the entry of the order
                    46. Which of the following accurately describes a              C. Within 60 days after the entry of the order
                        cease and desist order as authorized by the USA?           D. Within 180 days after the entry of the order
                        A. An Administrator’s order to an issuer to
                            suspend sale of its security as a result of        50. An Administrator may summarily suspend a
                            improper disclosures in the registration               registration of an agent or an IAR pending final
                            statement                                              determination of proceedings under the USA.
                        B. An Administrator’s order to refrain from                However, the Administrator may not enter a final
                            a practice of business believed by that                order without
                            Administrator to be unfair                              I. appropriate prior notice to the applicant as
                        C. A court-issued order requiring a business to                well as the employer or prospective employer
                            stop an unfair practice                                    of the applicant
                        D. An order from one brokerage firm to another             II. opportunity for a hearing
                            to refrain from unfair business practices             III. findings of fact and conclusions of law
                                                                                  IV. prior written acknowledgment of the
                    47. A resident of Albany, NY, is visiting relatives in             applicant
                        Albany, GA. While there, she receives a phone
                                                                                   A. I only
                        call from her agent in the Troy, NY, office of Capi-
                                                                                   B. I and II
                        tal City Investments who offers a security that the
                                                                                   C. I, II, and III
                        client immediately agrees to purchase. The next
                                                                                   D. I, II, III, and IV
                        day, she sends her payment from Georgia. The
                        agent sends the trade confirmation to the pur-
                        chaser’s residence address in New York. This agent
                        is registered in 12 states, including New York and
                        Georgia. The security is not exempt and was not
                        registered. Which Administrator has the authority
                        to pursue action against the agent?
                        A. Georgia
                        B. New York
                        C. Both Georgia and New York
                        D. The Administrator of any of the 12 states in
                             which the agent is registered




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 255                                                                                                         7/15/2016 2:02:56 PM
        256        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition



        51. A state-registered investment adviser maintains                  54. Under the NASAA Model Custody Rule, an in-
            custody of client funds and securities. On Thurs-                    vestment adviser would be considered to have cus-
            day, the chief financial officer of the firm informs                 tody of client assets if that adviser inadvertently
            the chief compliance officer that their net worth                    receives
            is $31,578. Under the provisions of the Uniform                       I. a check from a client made out to the IA and
            Securities Act, the firm would                                           does not return the check within 24 hours
            A. do nothing, as their net worth is far in excess                   II. a check from a client made out to a third
                 of the minimum requirement of $10,000                               party and does not forward the check within 3
            B. send a detailed financial report to the                               business days
                 Administrator by the close of business Friday
                                                                                III. stock certificates from a client and does not
            C. send a detailed financial report to the
                                                                                     forward them within 3 business days
                 Administrator by the close of business
                 Monday                                                         IV. stock certificates from a client and does not
            D. need to increase the amount of their surety                           return them within 3 business days
                 bond                                                            A. I and IV
                                                                                 B. I, II and IV
        52. An investment adviser owes an undivided loyalty                      C. II and IV
            to its clients and therefore is considered to be a(n)                D. II and III
            A. agent
            B. fiduciary                                                     55. Which of the following would be deemed to be an
            C. principal                                                         assignment of an investment advisory contract?
            D. custodian                                                          I. All of the stock in NLT Advisers, a
                                                                                      corporation, is acquired by MMS Advisers,
        53. Which of the following statements regarding pro-                          Inc.
            visions of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 is                    II. The Lucky Seven Partnership is an investment
            TRUE?                                                                     adviser with 7 partners. Four of the partners
            A. Big Gains Registered Investment Advisers                               make a fortune and decide to retire. They are
                 must disclose its sources of information for                         replaced by new partners.
                 specific recommendations they make to their                    III. Albert is an investment adviser. His clients’
                 clients.                                                             accounts are automatically debited monthly
            B. An investment adviser must obtain client                               for his fee. Because of this steady cash flow,
                 permission to accept a buyout offer for all of                       his banker readily accepts a pledge of these
                 the adviser’s stock.                                                 accounts as collateral for a loan.
            C. Five Partners Advisers, Ltd., must inform all                     A. I and II
                 clients that one of the 5 partners has retired                  B. I and III
                 and been replaced by a new partner.                             C. II and III
            D. Pledging a client’s contract as collateral for a                  D. I, II and III
                 loan to the adviser would not be considered an
                 assignment of the contract.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 256                                                                                                             7/15/2016 2:02:56 PM
                                                                                                              Unit 1 Unit Test       257



                   56. Who of the following are exempt from registration     58. All of the following statements regarding invest-
                       as an investment adviser under the Investment             ment advisers are NOT true EXCEPT
                       Advisers Act of 1940?                                     A. there are specific educational requirements
                        I. An adviser whose clients consist solely of                that all investment advisers must meet
                           insurance companies                                   B. the term scalping is the practice whereby an
                       II. An adviser to 7 private funds with total                  investment adviser, before the dissemination
                           assets under management in the U.S. of $125               of a securities recommendation, trades on the
                           million                                                   anticipated short-run market activity that may
                      III. An adviser whose only office is in Georgia                result from the recommendations
                           who deals only with Georgia residents, none           C. an investment adviser’s books and records
                           of whom is a private fund, and does not deal              must be maintained in an easily accessible
                           in securities listed on any national securities           place for 3 years under the act
                           exchange                                              D. federal covered advisers may not maintain
                      IV. An adviser in Florida with only 10 Florida                 custody of funds and securities of clients
                           clients who advertises in telephone and                   residing in a state if custody is prohibited by
                           business directories and specializes in dealing           the Administrator of that state
                           in New York Stock Exchange issues
                       A. I and II                                           59. Which of the following people would NOT meet
                       B. I, II and III                                          the definition of a person associated with an in-
                       C. III and IV                                             vestment adviser?
                       D. I, II, III and IV                                      A. An individual who solicits potential clients to
                                                                                     open advisory accounts
                   57. Which of the following statements concerning              B. A vice president of a registered investment
                       investment advisers are true?                                 adviser
                        I. An investment adviser who is exempt from              C. A brokerage firm that is considered to be the
                           registration is also exempt from the antifraud            parent of a registered investment adviser
                           provisions of the Uniform Securities Act.             D. The typist responsible for operating the
                       II. The SEC can cancel the registration of a                  desktop publishing system that prepares the
                           federal covered investment adviser if it finds            investment adviser’s weekly research bulletins
                           that the adviser is no longer in business.
                      III. An investment adviser who represents that         60. A firm is registered as an investment adviser un-
                           their qualifications and methods of security          der the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. It has
                           analysis have been passed on by the SEC has           decided to raise its annual management fee from
                           violated the act.                                     $1,500 to $1,800 and require that it be paid 1 year
                                                                                 in advance instead of quarterly. The firm would
                       A. I and II
                       B. I and III                                              A. need client permission to make this change
                       C. II and III                                             B. need SEC permission to make this change
                       D. I, II and III                                          C. now come under the balance sheet
                                                                                     requirements of the ADV
                                                                                 D. be in violation of the law that prohibits pre-
                                                                                     payments more than 6 months in advance




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 257                                                                                                       7/15/2016 2:02:56 PM
        258        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition



        61. Which of the following statements regarding the                  64. A registered investment adviser runs a promotion
            SEC’s power to revoke the registration of an in-                     offering free information to all who request it.
            vestment adviser is TRUE?                                            Which of the following statements to people who
            A. If it is determined that an investment                            respond do not comply with the advertising inter-
                adviser is insolvent, the SEC may revoke the                     pretation of the Uniform Securities Act?
                registration.                                                     I. “The offer is yours, free of charge; all I need
            B. Failure to adequately supervise a person                              are the names of 5 friends who might be able
                associated with the adviser could be cause for                       to use our service.”
                the SEC to revoke the firm’s registration.                       II. “Such a deal; our information about the
            C. Revocation would occur, with appropriate                              market is free to anyone who makes only one
                notice, when a firm’s annual updating                                trade with our broker-dealer affiliate.”
                amendment was received by the SEC 120 days                      III. “Thank you for responding; if we can help you
                after the end of the registrant’s fiscal year.                       after you read our information, please let us
            D. An investment adviser receiving substantial                           know.”
                prepayment of fees from 50% of its clients                       A. I and II
                that fails to include a copy of its balance sheet                B. I and III
                in its brochure delivered to all clients would                   C. II and III
                give the SEC cause for beginning revocation                      D. I, II and III
                proceedings.
                                                                             65. Which of the following statements made by an
        62. An investment adviser registered with the SEC                        investment adviser would be fraudulent?
            could use the term investment counsel if
                                                                                 A. “We believe that fundamental analysis is the
             I. their principal business consists of rendering                       best way to select stocks for our clients.”
                investment advice                                                B. “Our fees are nonnegotiable” (when ADV
            II. a substantial portion of their business involves                     Part 2A clearly indicates otherwise).
                investment supervisory services                                  C. “We require any associated person
           III. they maintains full investment discretion                            determining general investment advice to be
            A. I and II                                                              a CFA.”
            B. I and III                                                         D. “We have over $40 billion in assets under
            C. II and III                                                            management representing both institutional
            D. I, II and III                                                         and retail clients.”

        63. Which of the following is NOT a prohibited prac-                 66. A federal covered investment adviser is one who
            tice under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940?                       I. has $110 million or more in assets under
            A. Scalping                                                              management
            B. Failure to maintain a file of all advertisements                  II. manages an investment company registered
                 circulated to 10 or more persons                                    under the Investment Company Act of 1940
            C. Maintaining required records easily accessible                   III. limits his advice to securities listed on the
                 for only 5 years                                                    NYSE
            D. Maintaining required records easily accessible                   IV. is affiliated with a federally chartered bank
                 for only 2 years                                                A. I and II
                                                                                 B. I and III
                                                                                 C. II and III
                                                                                 D. I, II, III and IV




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 258                                                                                                             7/15/2016 2:02:56 PM
                                                                                                                Unit 1 Unit Test       259



                    67. Under the Uniform Securities Act, which of the         70. As defined in the Uniform Securities Act, an in-
                        following would be included in the definition of an        vestment adviser is all of the following EXCEPT
                        investment adviser representative?                          I. a broker-dealer who charges for investment
                        A. An employee, highly skilled in evaluating                   advice
                             securities, who performs administrative or            II. a publisher of a financial newspaper
                             clerical functions for an investment adviser         III. a person who sells security analysis
                        B. An individual who renders fee-based advice             IV. a CPA who, as an incidental part of his
                             on precious metals                                        practice, suggests certain tax-sheltered
                        C. A solicitor for an investment advisory firm                 investments to his affluent clients
                             who is compensated for the service rendered           A. I and II
                        D. An agent who offers incidental advice on                B. II and III
                             securities whose sole compensation is from            C. II and IV
                             commissions on transactions                           D. III and IV

                    68. Under the Uniform Securities Act, all of the fol-      71. An Administrator can deny an individual’s ap-
                        lowing may provide investment advice incidental            plication for registration as an investment adviser
                        to their normal business without requiring registra-       representative for all of the following reasons EX-
                        tion as an investment adviser EXCEPT                       CEPT
                        A. a teacher                                               A. lack of experience
                        B. an economist                                            B. conviction for a securities-related
                        C. a lawyer                                                    misdemeanor within the past 10 years
                        D. an engineer                                             C. failure to pass a written exam
                                                                                   D. submitting an incomplete application
                    69. Under the Uniform Securities Act, any partner,
                        officer, or director of a registered investment        72. Under the Uniform Securities Act, an investment
                        adviser is an investment adviser representative if a       adviser may legally have custody of money or secu-
                        function of the position involves                          rities belonging to a client if the
                         I. offering advice concerning securities                   I. investment adviser has insufficient net worth
                        II. managing client accounts or portfolios                      or is not appropriately bonded
                       III. determining securities recommendations for             II. Administrator has not issued a rule prohibiting
                             representatives to disseminate                             custody
                       IV. supervising personnel engaged in advisory              III. investment adviser does not also have
                             activities but not directly dealing with the               discretionary authority over the account
                             public                                               IV. investment adviser has notified the
                        A. I only                                                       Administrator that custody is maintained
                        B. I and II                                                A. I and III
                        C. I, II and III                                           B. II only
                        D. I, II, III and IV                                       C. II and IV
                                                                                   D. IV only




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 259                                                                                                         7/15/2016 2:02:56 PM
        260        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition



        73. According to the Uniform Securities Act, an in-                  75. The head of research for your firm has just pre-
            vestment adviser may have custody of a customer’s                    pared a very positive report on DEF Industries,
            funds and securities if                                              Inc. The report will be placed on the firm’s website
            A. it has received the permission of the                             later today and copies mailed to clients for whom
                Administrator                                                    the security is deemed appropriate. Tonight, this
            B. it has received permission from the SEC                           analyst will be appearing on CNBC and will be
            C. it does not share in the capital gains of the                     describing why he has issued this “strong buy” rec-
                account                                                          ommendation. As an investment adviser represen-
            D. the Administrator has been informed of the                        tative, you would
                custody                                                          A. be permitted to contact your clients with this
                                                                                      recommendation right now
        74. Which of the following are prohibited practices?                     B. be permitted to contact your clients with this
             I. An investment advisory firm organized as                              recommendation tomorrow
                a partnership fails to inform its clients of                     C. not be permitted to contact your clients until
                the departure of a partner with a very small                          it was ascertained that the report was general
                interest in the partnership.                                          public knowledge
            II. An investment advisory firm charges an                           D. be required to send your clients to the
                annual fee equal to 2% of the first $250,000                          firm’s website before making any comments
                in assets under management; 1% of the next                            regarding this security
                $500,000; and .5% for everything in excess of
                $750,000.                                                    76. Which of the following statements concerning
           III. The majority stockholder of a registered                          conflicts of interest under NASAA’s Model Rule
                investment adviser pledges his stock as                           on Unethical Business Practices of Investment
                collateral for a loan taken out by the firm to                    Advisers, Investment Adviser Representatives,
                expand its services without obtaining client                      and Federal Covered Advisers are TRUE?
                consent for assignment of their contracts.                         I. Where a conflict of interest exists, an adviser
           IV. An investment advisory firm engages in                                 must decline taking on the client.
                agency cross transactions.                                        II. A conflict of interest is defined as anything
            A. I and III                                                              that may impair the impartiality of the advice
            B. I and IV                                                               being rendered.
            C. III and IV                                                        III. An investment adviser who receives a fee for
            D. I, II, III and IV                                                      investment advice, and whose investment
                                                                                      adviser representatives are paid commissions
                                                                                      from broker-dealers, presents a conflict of
                                                                                      interest that must be disclosed.
                                                                                  A. I and II
                                                                                  B. I and III
                                                                                  C. II and III
                                                                                  D. I, II, and III




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 260                                                                                                              7/15/2016 2:02:56 PM
                                                                                                              Unit 1 Unit Test       261



                   77. The regulatory bodies are concerned about agents      79. A great concern to broker-dealers is the theft of
                       using social media to communicate with clients            the identity of a client. To reduce the possibility
                       when they are using their                                 of a client’s assets being improperly taken, most
                        I. office desktop computers                              firms would consider all of these to be a red flag
                       II. personal tablets                                      EXCEPT
                      III. smartphones                                           A. almost 1 year since your last contact with your
                      IV. personal laptop from homes                                  client, you receive a phone call requesting
                       A. I and II                                                    that funds be wired to an offshore account
                       B. I and IV                                               B. a client regularly visits your office to pick up
                       C. II, III, and IV                                             a check representing the proceeds of recently
                       D. I, II, III, and IV                                          settled transactions
                                                                                 C. when running a credit report on a new client’s
                   78. One of your clients approaches you to get your                 applications, there is a discrepancy between
                       evaluation of an investment opportunity that was               the home address listed on the report and the
                       received through a Facebook post sent by a friend.             one on the new account form
                       The investment promises a monthly return in               D. the photograph on the identification
                       excess of 1% and claims that it is registered with             documents provided does not resemble the
                       an offshore regulatory body. You should explain to             individual opening the account
                       your client that
                                                                             80. A BCP should be designed to protect the firm’s
                       A. these are reasonable expectations based on the
                                                                                 clients in the event of which of the following?
                           investment and the location of the issuer
                       B. your firm does not sell that security and, as a         I. A natural disaster such as a hurricane or
                           result, you cannot make any comments about                tornado
                           the issue                                             II. Acts of terrorism
                       C. it is important to check with the friend to find      III. Pregnancy of one of the firm’s IARs
                           out more about the deal                              IV. Climate change
                       D. these are red flags and are a clear warning to         A. I and II
                           stay away from this investment                        B. I and IV
                                                                                 C. II and III
                                                                                 D. III and IV




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 261                                                                                                       7/15/2016 2:02:56 PM
       262         Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




               A N S W E R S                 A N D           R A T I O N A L E S

          1. A. Insider trading is covered primarily in                       7. D. The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
                the Insider Trading and Securities Fraud                            requires registration of securities exchanges,
                Enforcement Act of 1988, as ­well as the                            as well as the securities listed on those
                10(b) sections of the Securities Exchange                           exchanges. It also requires registration of
                Act of 1934. Of course, it is the Securities                        corporations whose securities are listed. All
                Exchange Act of 1934 that deals with                                broker-dealers (other than intrastate) must
                securities exchanges. A deficiency letter                           register, as well as SROs, such as FINRA
                is used by the SEC to extend the 20-day                             and the MSRB.
                cooling-off period when something is
                missing from the registration statement.                      8.   B. Choice A relates to the Trust Indenture
                                                                                      Act of 1939 (not tested); Choice C relates
          2. D. Intrastate issues are exempt from the                                 to SIPA of 1970, which created SIPC (also
                Securities Act of 1933 under Rule 147. U.S.                           not tested); and Choice D relates to the
                government securi­ties are always exempt.                             Investment Advisers Act of 1940.
                Regulation D is the private placement
                exemption.                                                    9. C. An indi­vidual who is convicted of, or
                                                                                    has pleaded guilty or no contest to, any
          3. A. This is the definition of churning.                                 felony or certain misdemeanors in the
                                                                                    previous 10 years (120 months) is subject
          4. C. An offer can only be made with an effec­tive                        to statutory disqualification. A conviction
                prospectus. A red herring is neither an offer                       made more than 10 years ago is part of the
                to sell nor an offer of a solicitation to buy;                      record but not cause for dis­qualification. A
                it may only be used to obtain indications of                        misdemeanor involving a financial matter
                interest.                                                           within the past 10 years is a cause for
                                                                                    disqualification. Accusation is not the same
          5.    B. Every prospectus carries the SEC disclaimer                      as conviction.
                   on the front cover in bold type. All the
                                                                             10.   B. Under the Securities Act of 1933, there are
                   SEC can hope for is full disclosure of the
                                                                                      two requirements for commercial paper to
                   pertinent information.
                                                                                      be exempt from registration: maturity may
                                                                                      not exceed nine months and proceeds must
          6. C. These securities are eligible for the
                                                                                      be used for current opera­tional needs.
                intrastate exemption afforded under Rule
                147. They might have to register in that                     		        Acquiring machinery would not be con­
                particular state, depending on whether                                 sidered current because the result is new
                they met the exemption requirements in                                 fixed assets. Rating and denominations
                that state for that type of issue. Only under                          are only important under the Uniform
                the NSMIA and the Uniform Securities                                   Securities Act.
                Act do securities listed on a national stock
                exchange receive a registration exemption,                   11.   B. The term any person does not include the
                as will be covered in the next session.                               designated agent of an investment club.
                                                                                      Groups put together for the purpose of
                                                                                      investing together, such as an investment
                                                                                      club or clients of an investment adviser, do
                                                                                      not qualify. Although there are exceptions,
                                                                                      the exam will deal with accounts for minor
                                                                                      children only.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 262                                                                                                           7/15/2016 2:02:56 PM
                                                                                                  Unit 1   Answers and Rationales       263



                   12. A. An investment company may own up to                  20. D. An agent exercising discretion is picking
                          3% of another investment company. Even                      the specific security, and/or the specific
                          though FINRA rules do require approval of                   amount, and/or the specific action (buy or
                          investment company communications with                      sell). Time and price are excluded from the
                          the public, such approval is not part of the                definition of discretion. An agent cannot
                          Investment Company Act of 1940.                             make any discretionary decisions in the
                                                                                      account until the proper authorizations
                   13. A. Section 30(d) of the act requires                           have been received and approved.
                          semiannual reports from the fund.
                          Although filing is required with the                 21. A. Under the USA, only individuals can be
                          SEC, the company does not file with its                     agents. A person who sells securities for a
                          shareholders. In the description of the                     broker-dealer is an agent. An administrative
                          types of investment companies, holding                      person, such as the assistant to the
                          companies (which invest in other                            president of a broker-dealer, is considered
                          companies for the purpose of management                     an agent if he takes securities orders from
                          control) are not included.                                  the public. Corporate entities are excluded
                                                                                      from the definition of an agent. Broker-
                   14. D. The SEC does not approve securities.                        dealers and issuers are not agents.

                   15.       B. Securities information processors (SIPs) are   22. D. Under the USA, an individual is an agent
                                regulated under the Securities Exchange               when effecting transactions with an issuer’s
                                Act of 1934. They include any person                  existing employees if commissions are paid.
                                engaged in the business of collecting,                Therefore, Choice B is not correct because
                                processing, or preparing for distribution             there are cases where the employee would
                                or publication information dealing with               have to register as an agent.
                                transactions in, or quotations for, any
                                nonexempt security; or distributing or         23. C. Anyone who solicits or receives an order
                                publishing (whether by means of a ticker              while representing a broker-dealer is an
                                tape, a communications network, a                     agent. Silent partners, administrative
                                terminal display device, or otherwise), on a          personnel, and executives of broker-
                                current and continuing basis, information             dealers, such as outside directors, who have
                                with respect to such transactions or                  nothing to do with the sales end of the
                                quotations.                                           business are not agents under the terms
                                                                                      of the USA because they do not solicit or
                   16. C. A prospectus deals with new issues, so                      receive orders or supervise those who do.
                          the term is defined in the Securities Act                   Remember, broker-dealers are not agents;
                          of 1933.                                                    agents represent broker-dealers. If, however,
                                                                                      any of these individuals were authorized to
                   17. A. The SEC never approves of an issue. The                     accept orders, or supervise those that do,
                          other statements are permissible.                           registration as an agent would be required.

                   18.       B. The Illinois Tool Company is a corporation,
                                even though it has a state in its name.

                   19. D. Treasury bills are defined as government
                          securities, not municipal securities. Under
                          federal law, Canadian cities (or provinces)
                          are not municipal securities.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 263                                                                                                          7/15/2016 2:02:56 PM
        264        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition



        24. C. An individual employed by a broker-                           27. D. Investment contracts are defined as a
               dealer who sells securities to the public                            security under the Uniform Securities Act.
               is an agent under the Uniform Securities                             In fact, the term is often used as a synonym
               Act. The USA defines an agent as “any                                for a security. A guaranteed, lump-sum
               individual other than a broker-dealer who                            payment to a beneficiary is an endowment
               represents a broker-dealer or issuer in                              policy excluded from the definition of a
               effecting or attempting to effect purchases                          security. Fixed, guaranteed payments made
               or sales of securities.” The law excludes                            for life or for a specified period are fixed
               those individuals from the definition of an                          annuity contracts not defined as securities.
               agent who represent an issuer in exempt                              Commodity futures contracts and the
               transactions, selling certain exempt                                 commodities themselves are not securities.
               securities (Canadian provincial securities                           It is much easier to remember what is not a
               are on that list), and transactions with                             security than what is.
               issuers’ employees when no commission is
               paid. There is virtually no case in which a                   28. B. The burden of proof for claiming eligibility
               salesperson representing a broker-dealer is                          for an exemption falls to the person
               not an agent.                                                        claiming the exemption. In the event the
                                                                                    registration statement was filed by someone
        25. C. An employee of a broker-dealer,                                      other than the issuer (such as selling
               permanent or temporary, compensated                                  stockholders or a broker-dealer), that
               or not, does not have to register if their                           person must prove the claim.
               only function is clerical or administrative.
               Compiling data is clerical and following up                   29. D. Registration by qualification is the
               with clients to determine how they wish to                           only registration method where the
               receive documents for a purchase they’ve                             Administrator sets the effective date.
               already made is simply an administrative                             The effective date under registration
               task. However, making an offer of a                                  by coordination is set by the SEC, and
               security clearly requires registration.                              notice filing is merely the filing of certain
                                                                                    documents by certain federal covered
        26.     B. Any broker-dealer with an office in the                          securities.
                   state, regardless of the nature of its clients,
                   is defined as a broker-dealer under the                   30. A. A client calling to purchase stock is an
                   USA. If the firm did not have an office                          unsolicited transaction, probably the most
                   in the state and its only clients were                           common of the exempt transactions. Any
                   institutions such as insurance companies,                        sale to an institutional client is an exempt
                   or other broker-dealers as in Choice D,                          transaction, whereas those to individuals,
                   it would be excluded from the definition.                        unless unsolicited, generally are not. Please
                   Banks or trust companies and agents are                          note, even though the Treasury bonds are
                   never broker-dealers.                                            an exempt security, because the transaction
                                                                                    was solicited by an agent to an individual
                                                                                    client, it is not an exempt transaction.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 264                                                                                                          7/15/2016 2:02:56 PM
                                                                                                     Unit 1   Answers and Rationales       265



                   31.       B. The sale of a security to an institution, such   34. A. Transactions by fiduciaries, such as a
                                as an insurance company, is considered                  trustee in a bankruptcy reorganization,
                                an exempt transaction. The fact that the                are exempt from registration. But only
                                company is not authorized to do business                a trustee in bankruptcy is afforded this
                                in the state only means that its securities             exemption, not for a family trust. An offer
                                would not be exempt, but that does not                  of a securities investment to 10 or fewer
                                change the fact that this is a sale to an               individuals (called a private placement)
                                institution and is, therefore, exempt. The              is also exempt from registration. Offers of
                                term accredited investor is meaningless                 pre-organization certificates are not exempt
                                here, only institutions qualify for exempt              when compensation is paid.
                                treatment, not rich people. The T-bonds
                                are an exempt security, but the sale to a        35. C. An issuer transaction is one where the
                                retail client is not an exempt transaction.             issuer of the securities receives the proceeds
                                Heating oil contracts are a commodity, not              of the sale. John’s father, although a founder
                                a security.                                             of the company, purchased shares directly
                                                                                        from the company. This transaction is
                   32.       B. On the state level, securities registration             an issuer transaction because the firm
                                statements are generally effective for 1                received the funds from the sale of the
                                year from the effective date. However,                  shares. In all the other instances, the firm,
                                the effective date may be extended for a                the original issuer of the securities, did not
                                longer period during which the security is              receive the proceeds of the transaction.
                                being offered or distributed in a nonexempt             These transactions are called nonissuer
                                transaction by the issuer or other person               transactions.
                                on whose behalf the offering is being made
                                or by any underwriter who is still offering      36. C. Bonds issued by states (under the USA,
                                part of an unsold allotment or subscription             the District of Columbia is considered a
                                taken by him as a participant in the                    state) and Canadian provinces are exempt.
                                distribution.                                           Any security issued by a federally chartered
                                                                                        credit union or one that is authorized to do
                   33.       B. Under the Uniform Securities Act,                       business in the state is exempt. However,
                                an issuer is any person who issues, or                  unless some other condition is given,
                                proposes to issue, a security. The resale               such as the issuer’s common stock is listed
                                of a partnership interest by an investor                on an exchange or Nasdaq (making it
                                is a nonissuer sale because the investor                federal covered), a corporate debenture is
                                is not the issuer. Examples of issuers                  not an exempt security. Don’t make any
                                are a municipality such as the city of                  assumptions on the exam.
                                Chicago, which issues tax-exempt
                                highway improvement bonds; the AAA               37. D. An Administrator may commence an
                                Manufacturing Company, which proposes                   action against an agent’s registration if the
                                to offer shares to the public even though               agent engages in prohibited practices such
                                it has not completed the offering; and                  as those described in each of the choices in
                                the United States government, when it                   the question.
                                proposes to offer Treasury bonds.
                                                                                 38. A. Creating the illusion of trading activity
                                                                                        is market manipulation. Guaranteeing
                                                                                        performance of a security and omitting
                                                                                        material facts are prohibited practices but
                                                                                        do not constitute market manipulation.
                                                                                        Trades too large for a customer are also
                                                                                        prohibited because they are not suitable.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 265                                                                                                             7/15/2016 2:02:56 PM
        266        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition



        39.     B. An agent may not offer services that he                   44.   B. Regardless of the requirements of other
                   cannot perform. An agent may participate                           states, the only requirements that must
                   actively in trading a security in which                            be met are those of the state where the
                   an unusually high trading volume has                               principal office is located. Among the items
                   occurred, provided the trading is not                              of advertising requiring maintenance of
                   designed to create a false appearance of                           records is a firm’s website. Personal email
                   high volume. At the client’s request, an                           sent by agents that is not business related
                   agent can alter a client’s order, even if the                      does not have to be retained. Trade blotters
                   change results in a loss. An agent is only                         have a 3-year retention requirement. Please
                   required to report written complaints to his                       note that in most cases, broker-dealers are
                   employing principal, although it would be                          registered with the SEC in addition to the
                   wise to report repeated oral complaints.                           states in which they do business. In that
                                                                                      case, the recordkeeping requirements of the
        40. C. Agents must always determine suitability                               SEC trump those of any state.
               before soliciting purchases or sales. The key
               here is that the agent recommended this                       45. C. Under the USA, the lawsuit for recovery
               stock to all clients. One investment cannot                          of damages must commence within the
               be suitable for all of your clients.                                 sooner of 3 years of occurrence of the
                                                                                    offense or 2 years of its discovery.
        41. D. All of the practices are prohibited. An
               agent may not borrow money or securities                      46.   B. A cease and desist order is a directive from
               from a customer unless that customer is                                an administrative agency to immediately
               a bank or broker-dealer in the business                                stop a particular action. The order can
               of lending money and/or securities.                                    come from a federal, state, or judicial
               Selling speculative issues to a retired                                body; it is not exclusive to anyone.
               couple of modest means is an unsuitable                                Administrators may issue cease and desist
               transaction because it is not consistent                               orders with or without a prior hearing.
               with the objectives of the client. An agent                            Brokerage houses cannot issue cease and
               must follow legal orders of the customer,                              desist orders to each other. An order issued
               even if the agent believes the order is an                             by the Administrator to halt the sale of
               unwise one. An agent may not backdate                                  a security is known as a stop order, not a
               confirmations for the benefit of the client.                           cease and desist order.

        42. C. Material facts are facts that an investor
               relies on to make investment decisions.
               The willful omission of a material fact in
               the sale, purchase, or offer of a security
               is fraudulent. This applies whether the
               security offered is exempt or nonexempt.

        43. A. It is a prohibited practice under the USA
               for an agent to share in the profits or losses
               of a customer’s account unless the customer
               and employing broker-dealer have given
               prior written authorization. An agent is
               permitted to jointly own, with spouse, a
               personal account at the firm and can refuse
               to share in a customer’s account.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 266                                                                                                           7/15/2016 2:02:56 PM
                                                                                                Unit 1   Answers and Rationales       267



                   47. C. Let’s start with the legal stuff first. Under     51. C. A state-registered investment adviser who
                          the Uniform Securities Act, an offer to                  maintains custody of client assets must
                          sell or to buy is made in a state when the               maintain net worth of at least $35,000 or
                          offer (1) originates from the state or (2) is            a bond of the same amount (not both).
                          directed by the offeror (the agent) to the               If the net worth should fall below the
                          state and received at the place to which it              minimum, by the close of the next business
                          is directed (or at any post office in the state          day after discovery (Friday in our example),
                          in the case of a mailed offer). Furthermore,             notice of the deficiency must be sent to the
                          an offer to buy or to sell is accepted in a              Administrator of the state in which the
                          state when acceptance is communicated                    principal office of the adviser is located.
                          to the offeror orally or in writing, inside,             Then, by the close of business the day after
                          or outside the state. The offer originated               that (Monday in our example), a detailed
                          in New York and was directed to Georgia                  financial report, including the number of
                          where it was accepted. The mailing of                    clients served by the adviser, must be sent
                          the confirmation is of no consequence.                   to the Administrator. The firm would need
                          Therefore, the Administrators of both New                to increase their net worth, not the bond.
                          York and Georgia would have jurisdiction
                          over this activity. If the check had been         52.   B. Both federal and state law consider the
                          mailed from another state while the client                 relationship to be a fiduciary one.
                          was on her way home, that would have no
                          impact on this question.                          53. C. Both state and federal law require advisers
                                                                                   operating as partnerships to notify their
                   48. A. If the person qualifies by virtue of training            clients of changes in partners where it
                          or knowledge, registration cannot be                     represents a minority interest in the firm.
                          denied for lack of experience only.                      No adviser is required to disclose the
                          Registration may be denied if the applicant              sources for a particular recommendation.
                          willfully violates the Uniform Securities                An advisory firm can be sold without client
                          Act, is financially insolvent, or has been               permission. However, if the transaction
                          enjoined from engaging in the securities                 results in a change that would be deemed to
                          business. In certain cases, an applicant for             be an assignment, the adviser must obtain
                          registration as an investment adviser may                the consent of the clients to maintain their
                          have his license restricted to only acting as            contracts. The regulatory bodies consider
                          a broker-dealer, but that is not considered              a pledge of clients’ contracts to be an
                          a denial.                                                assignment.

                   49. C. Under the USA, a registered person has            54. C. Checks made out to a third party must be
                          up to 60 days to appeal any disciplinary                 forwarded to that party within 3 business
                          finding by the state Administrator.                      days of receipt or the IA will be considered
                                                                                   to be maintaining custody. In the case of
                   50. C. With the exception of those proceedings                  certificates or checks made out to the IA,
                          awaiting final determination, the                        return must be made within 3 business days
                          Administrator must provide an appropriate                of receipt in order to avoid custody issues;
                          prior notice to the applicant as well as the             they are never forwarded.
                          employer or prospective employer of the
                          applicant and provide the opportunity for         55    D. It is deemed to be an assignment whenever
                          a hearing. In addition, the Administrator                  a majority interest in an adviser changes
                          may only issue a final order after findings                hands. Pledging a client’s contract is
                          of fact and conclusions of law. An                         considered to be an assignment.
                          applicant is not required to provide written
                          acknowledgment before an order is issued.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 267                                                                                                        7/15/2016 2:02:57 PM
        268        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition



        56.     B. To qualify for the intrastate exemption,                  60. C. For federal covered investment advisers,
                   there is no numerical limitation, none                           a prepayment in excess of $1,200 and for
                   of the clients can be private funds, and                         periods of 6 months or more in advance
                   advertising on an intrastate basis is                            (substantial prepayment) requires the
                   permitted. However, no advice may be                             adviser to submit an annual audited balance
                   given on securities traded on a national                         sheet as part of its ADV Part 2 (and
                   stock exchange. Under the federal law,                           brochure). Previously, even though the
                   an exemption from registration applies                           firm’s fee was in excess of $1,200, because
                   if the adviser’s only clients are insurance                      it was collected on a quarterly basis, the
                   companies. And, if an adviser’s only clients                     firm did not fall under the balance sheet
                   are private funds (regardless of how many)                       rule. Had this been a state registered IA,
                   and AUM in the United States is less than                        the answer would have been the same,
                   $150 million, that adviser is exempt as well.                    even though the dollar limit is $500
                                                                                    rather than $1,200. That is for the reason
        57. C. As long as a security is involved, no one                            given above—the former fee was charged
               is ever exempt from the USA’s antifraud                              quarterly and the substantial prepayment
               provisions on the exam. The SEC may                                  definition requires both exceeding a stated
               cancel the registration of an adviser for                            dollar amount ($500 or $1,200) and it
               one of several reasons, no longer being                              being for 6 months or more in advance.
               in business is one of them. It is always a
               violation to claim that the SEC (or the                       61.   B. Failure to supervise, if proven, is one of
               Administrator) has approved of your                                    the most common causes for disciplinary
               methods of doing business.                                             action against a broker-dealer or investment
                                                                                      adviser. Insolvency is not a cause for
        58.     B. First of all, let’s get rid of the negatives.                      revocation under the Investment Advisers
                   By stating all are not true except, the                            Act of 1940, but it is for a state registered
                   question is looking for the true statement.                        investment adviser (it tough to keep
                   The correct choice describes scalping,                             these straight; please see Appendix A). A
                   a prohibited practice. There are no                                late ADV annual updating amendment
                   educational requirements for investment                            might be cause for some action but almost
                   advisers and books and records must be                             certainly not a revocation. It is not that
                   kept easily accessible for a period of 5 years,                    serious an offense. The balance sheet
                   the first 2 years in an appropriate office                         would only have to be part of the disclosure
                   (generally the principal office of the IA).                        statement (brochure) given to those from
                   State Administrators have no jurisdiction                          whom substantial prepayment of fees is
                   over federal covered advisers; if the state                        received.
                   prohibits custody, that would only impact
                   state-registered IAs.                                     62. A. These are the 2 requirements for use of the
                                                                                    term investment counsel. Although it can
        59. D. People in strictly clerical or administrative                        be a factor, exercising discretion is not a
               positions are not considered to be                                   requirement of the definition.
               associated persons of an investment adviser.
               Expect to see several variations of this                      63. C. Both state and federal law require that
               theme on the exam.                                                   records be kept easily accessible for a period
                                                                                    of no less than 5 years. What might have
                                                                                    tricked you here is that these laws require
                                                                                    that the records be kept in the principal
                                                                                    office of the IA for the first 2 years.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 268                                                                                                            7/15/2016 2:02:57 PM
                                                                                                    Unit 1   Answers and Rationales       269



                   64. A. If an advertisement claims to offer                   68.   B. The Uniform Securities Act does not
                          something for free, it must be free of any                     exclude economists from the definition
                          obligation. Choices I and II have strings                      of investment adviser as it does lawyers,
                          attached and are not free.                                     accountants, teachers, and engineers
                                                                                         who give advice that is incidental to the
                   65.       B. Stating an untruth would be considered                   practice of their profession. Remember
                                fraud. If the Form ADV Part 2 says that                  the acronym LATE—lawyers, accountants,
                                the fees are negotiable, you can’t state that            teachers, and engineers. Do not be fooled
                                they are not. An adviser may certainly state             by the E in economist.
                                which method of analysis he thinks is best.
                                A firm can also set whatever standards it       69. D. The Uniform Securities Act defines persons
                                wishes, even though none are required by               associated with an investment adviser
                                the regulatory bodies. As far as bragging              as an investment adviser representative,
                                about the amount of AUM, if you’ve got                 including any partner, officer, or director
                                them, it is okay to flaunt them.                       who offers advice concerning securities.
                                                                                       Persons who manage client accounts
                   66. A. Federal registration is generally required                   or portfolios, determine securities
                          of any investment adviser managing at                        recommendations, or supervise personnel
                          least $110 million in assets. The NSMIA                      engaged in the above activities are
                          provides that any investment adviser                         investment adviser representatives.
                          under contract to a registered investment
                          company under the Investment Company                  70. C. A publisher of a financial newspaper and
                          Act of 1940 is required to register with the                 a CPA who, as an incidental part of his
                          SEC as a federal covered adviser. Providing                  practice, suggests tax-sheltered investments
                          advice on federal covered securities listed                  are not investment advisers. Once a broker-
                          on the NYSE does not make the adviser                        dealer is compensated for investment
                          a federal covered adviser. Determining if                    advice, usually referred to as special
                          one is a federal covered investment adviser                  compensation in the rules, the exclusion
                          is not based on affiliations; it is generally                from the definition is lost. This answer
                          a function of AUM or managing an                             would be the same under either the USA
                          investment company.                                          or federal law.

                   67. C. A solicitor is considered an investment               71. A. Lack of experience, by itself, is not cause for
                          adviser representative under the Uniform                     registration denial.
                          Securities Act. An employee who performs
                          only clerical or administrative functions is          72. C. The Administrator may, by rule, prohibit
                          not an investment adviser representative.                    advisers from having custody of client
                          Precious metals are not securities and,                      funds or securities. If no such prohibition
                          therefore, a person advising on them is                      applies, the Administrator must be notified
                          not considered an investment adviser                         in writing if an adviser has custody. In
                          representative. An agent is a representative                 almost all jurisdictions, a bond or sufficient
                          of a broker-dealer, and as long as the only                  net worth is required to maintain custody.
                          form of compensation is sales commissions                    Discretionary authority does not affect an
                          based upon transactions, registration as an                  adviser’s ability to have custody.
                          investment adviser representative is not
                          required.                                             73. D. As long as retaining custody of funds is
                                                                                       not prohibited, an investment adviser may
                                                                                       have custody of a customer’s account after
                                                                                       providing notice to the Administrator.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 269                                                                                                            7/15/2016 2:02:57 PM
        270        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition



        74. A. Any change in the ownership of an                             77. D. The format is not what counts; it is the
               investment advisory firm organized as                                content that matters.
               a partnership, no matter how small,
               requires notification to all clients within                   78. D. Unreasonably high returns and not being
               a reasonable amount of time. If the firm                             registered in the United States are two
               is structured as a corporation, pledging a                           items on the list of red flag warnings to
               controlling interest in the company’s stock                          investors published by NASAA.
               is viewed as an assignment of the contracts.
               This may not be done without the approval                     79.   B   There is nothing wrong with a client
               of the clients. Agency cross transactions—                              picking up a check for the proceeds of a
               that is, where the adviser represents both                              securities transaction, even if done on a
               sides of the trade—are permitted as long                                regular basis (some folks don’t trust the
               as the adviser makes the proper written                                 mail). Each of the other choices should
               disclosures and does not make the buy/sell                              raise a red flag as being something needing
               recommendations to both parties.                                        further investigation.

        75. A. A firm’s internal research is not considered                  80. A. Business Continuity Plans are designed to
               inside information. Clients may be                                   provide for the unexpected events that can
               contacted as soon as the IAR has access to                           disrupt day-to-day business operations.
               the report. What is prohibited would be for
               the IAR to purchase this stock personally,
               prior to release of the report, and then
               contact clients.

        76. C. Conflicts of interest could impair the
               rendering of unbiased and objective advice.
               Conflicts of interest include, but are not
               limited to, receiving compensation from
               sources other than clients’ fees (such as a
               salary or commission from a broker-dealer)
               as a result of providing investment advice.
               Such conflicts of interest must be disclosed
               to a client in writing before the investment
               advisory contract is signed.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 270                                                                                                           7/15/2016 2:02:57 PM
                             Unit 2
                             Investment Vehicle
                             Characteristics

                                       This unit consists of six sessions:
                                       Session 4	Types and Characteristics of Equity Securities Including
                                                    Methods Used to Determine Their Value
                                       Session 5	Types and Characteristics of Fixed Income (Debt) Securities
                                                    and Methods Used to Determine Their Value
                                       Session 6 	Types and Characteristics of Cash and Cash Equivalents
                                       Session 7	Pooled Investments
                                       Session 8 Insurance-Based Products
                                       Session 9 Types and Characteristics of Derivative Securities
                                       Session 10 Alternative Investments and Other Assets
                                       In total there will be 20 questions on this material, representing 20% of
                                   the Series 66 exam.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 271                                                                                7/15/2016 2:02:57 PM
                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                   Because virtually all Series 66 applicants have already taken (or studied for) the
                                              Series 7 exam, NASAA assumes a basic understanding of the various investment
                                              vehicles available for your clients. As such, even though there may be few questions
                                              directly related to the different types of securities, in order to answer the questions
                                              dealing with client recommendations and suitability, it is necessary to have a solid
                                              background.
                                                   The purpose of this Unit is to make sure you have competency in this topic. Most
                                              of the sessions are quite short and to the point. (Session 8 is a notable exception.) If
                                              you need further review on any of the other sessions, we recommend you go back to
                                              your Series 7 material to refresh your knowledge.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 272                                                                                                     7/15/2016 2:02:57 PM
                             4
                             Types and Characteristics
                             of Equity Securities
                             Including Methods Used
                             to Determine Their Value


                             T
                                    he investment world is divided between owners (represented by
                                    stock or equity securities) and lenders (represented by bonds or debt
                                    securities).
                                 Investors who buy stock in a company are its owners. Owners receive
                             dividends. Investors who buy bonds in a government or corporation are
                             lenders. Lenders receive interest payments.
                                 The Series 66 exam will include approximately 3 questions on the
                             material presented in this session. ■




                                                                                                          273




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 273                                                                          7/15/2016 2:02:57 PM
            OBJECTIVES


                                 When you have completed this session, you should be able to:

                             ■■ compare and contrast the basic features of common and preferred stock;

                             ■■ identify the unique features and risks of investing in foreign securities; and

                             ■■ evaluate the methods used to determine the value of equity securities.




      274




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 274                                                                                       7/15/2016 2:02:58 PM
                                       Session 4   Types and Characteristics of Equity Securities Including Methods Used to Determine Their Value      275




                   4. 1       EQUITY SECURITIES
                                     When individual investors become owners of a corporation by purchasing stock in
                                 that company, they can participate in the company’s prosperity by sharing in earnings
                                 through the receipt of dividends and, particularly in the case of common stock, benefit
                                 from an increase in the price of the shares.


                   4. 1. 1       COMMON STOCK
                                     Common stock is equity ownership in a corporation. A company issues stock to raise
                                 business capital, and investors who buy the stock are buying a share of ownership in the
                                 company. Whatever a business owns (its assets) less its creditors’ claims (its liabilities)
                                 belongs to the businessowners (its stockholders).
                                     Corporations may issue two types of stock: common and preferred. When speaking
                                 of stocks, people generally mean common stock. Preferred stock also represents equity
                                 ownership in a corporation but usually does not have the same voting rights or apprecia-
                                 tion potential as common stock. Preferred stock normally pays a fixed quarterly dividend
                                 and has priority claims over common stock; that is, the preferred is paid first if a company
                                 goes bankrupt, and common stockholders will never receive a dividend until the preferred
                                 shareholders have been paid theirs.


                   4. 1. 2       BENEFITS OF OWNING COMMON STOCK

                        4. 1. 2. 1   Growth (Capital Gains)
                                     An increase in the market price of securities is capital appreciation. Historically, own-
                                 ing common stock has provided investors with returns in excess of the inflation rate. For
                                 this reason, most investors with a long-term investment horizon have included common
                                 stock in their portfolios as a hedge against inflation. Of course, it must be mentioned that
                                 stock prices can decline, particularly over the short run.




                             *
                             EXAMPLE




                        4. 1. 2. 2   Income
                                                         An investor buys shares of RST for $60 per share on January 1, 2015. On
                                                    December 31, 2015, the shares are worth $90, an increase of 50% in the market
                                                    price.




                                     Many corporations pay regular quarterly cash dividends to stockholders. A company’s
                                 dividends may increase over time as profitability increases. Dividends, which can be a
                                 significant source of income for investors, are a major reason many people invest in stocks.
                                     Issuers may also pay stock dividends in additional shares in the issuing company, or
                                 property dividends, shares in a subsidiary company, or in product.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 275                                                                                                                      7/15/2016 2:02:58 PM
     276        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                             *
                         EXAMPLE                         RST paid a dividend of $2 per share during 2015, which provided the inves-
                                                    tor with a dividend yield of 3.3% ($2 ÷ $60 = 3.33%) in addition to the price
                                                    appreciation.




                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         The increase in the price of RST stock in the example above is an unrealized
                                                    gain until the stock is sold; when it is sold, it becomes a realized gain. Capital
                                                    gains are not taxed until they are realized. Under current tax law, most dividends
                                                    and long-term capital gains are taxed at a rate not in excess of 15%. Taxation
                                                    will be covered in more detail in Unit 4.


                   4. 1. 2. 3         Rights of Stockholders
                                     Common stockholders have the right to vote for the corporation’s board of directors
                                 at the corporation’s annual meeting. They have the right to sell or give away their shares
                                 without permission of the corporation. Common stock is freely transferable to anyone who
                                 wants to buy it or receive it as a gift. Without this feature, there would be no stock mar-
                                 kets. Common stockholders have a right to limited access to the corporation’s books. For
                                 the most part, common stockholders have the right to examine the minutes of meetings
                                 of the board of directors and the right to examine the list of the stockholders. Usually, this
                                 right is not exercised unless the performance of the corporation’s management declines
                                 seriously. They also have the right to receive an audited set of financial statements of the
                                 company’s performance each year (annual reports).


                   4. 1. 2. 4         Limited Liability
                                     One of the most important features of equity ownership (common stock or preferred
                                 stock) is limited liability. In the event of the bankruptcy of a corporation, when corporate
                                 assets are not adequate to meet corporate obligations, the stockholder’s personal assets are
                                 not at risk. One cannot be forced to sell any personal assets to help pay the debts of the
                                 business.
                                     An individual investing $5,000 in the stock (common or preferred) of a corporation
                                 that goes bankrupt may lose the entire $5,000 if the company is not salvaged, but will not
                                 be forced to pay out any more money to take care of the corporation’s debts. That investor
                                 is personally at risk only for the amount that was invested. This is different from a busi-
                                 ness organized as a sole proprietorship or partnership where the owner’s personal assets are
                                 placed at risk should the business not be able to pay off its obligations. This concept will
                                 be discussed later in Unit 4.


                   4. 1. 2. 5         Liquidity
                                     In almost all cases, shares of common stock are freely transferrable. That means that
                                 shareholders do not need the permission of the issuer, or anyone else, in order to sell their
                                 stock in the open market. This is especially true in the case of shares traded on the major
                                 stock exchanges. One exception is restricted stock (covered in Unit 1, Session 1), where
                                 sales are contingent upon meeting the requirements of SEC Rule 144.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 276                                                                                                               7/15/2016 2:02:58 PM
                                              Session 4   Types and Characteristics of Equity Securities Including Methods Used to Determine Their Value      277




                   4. 1. 3           RISKS OF OWNING COMMON STOCK
                                         Regardless of their expectations, investors have no assurances that they will receive
                                     the returns they expect from their investments.


                        4. 1. 3. 1       Market Risk
                                         The chance that a stock will decline in price is one risk of owning common stock
                                     (known as market risk). A stock’s price fluctuates daily as perceptions of the company’s
                                     business prospects change and influence the actions of buyers and sellers. Investors have
                                     no assurance whatsoever that they will be able to recoup the investment in a stock at any
                                     time. The concept of market risk will be dealt with in more detail in Unit 3.


                        4. 1. 3. 2       Decreased or No Income
                                         A risk of stock ownership is the possibility of dividend income decreasing or ceasing
                                     entirely if the company loses money.


                        4. 1. 3. 3       Low Priority at Dissolution
                                         If a company enters bankruptcy, the holders of its bonds and preferred stock have
                                     priority over common stockholders. A company’s debt and preferred shares are considered
                                     senior securities. Common stockholders have residual rights to corporate assets upon
                                     dissolution.



                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                                In owning common equity, the investor stands to lose current income
                                                           through dividend reduction or suspension, as well as capital loss, should the mar-
                                                           ket price decline. In return, however, the shareholder has limited liability; that is,
                                                           the liability is limited to the amount invested.

                                        In summation, why would you include common stock in a client’s portfolio?
                                     ■■ Potential capital appreciation
                                     ■■ Income from dividends
                                     ■■ Hedge against inflation

                                        In doing so, the client would be incurring the following risks:
                                     ■■ Market
                                     ■■ Business difficulties leading to possible reduction or elimination of the dividend and
                                        even bankruptcy leading to loss of principal




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 277                                                                                                                             7/15/2016 2:02:58 PM
     278        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                             Q
                  QUICK QUIZ 4.A                    1.   Which of the following represent(s) ownership in a company?
                                                           I.   Corporate bonds
                                                          II.   Common stock
                                                         III.   Preferred stock
                                                         IV.    Mortgage bonds
                                                         A.     I and IV
                                                         B.     II only
                                                         C.     II and III
                                                         D.     I, II, III and IV

                                                    2.   Among the benefits of owning common stock are
                                                           I. it has historically been a hedge against inflation
                                                          II. voting rights
                                                         III. access, as owners, to information about corporate earnings before the
                                                              general public
                                                         IV. dividends
                                                         A.     I and II
                                                         B.     I, II and IV
                                                         C.     II and IV
                                                         D.     I, II, III and IV

                                                    3.   Limited liability regarding ownership in a U.S. corporation means all of the
                                                         following EXCEPT
                                                         A.     investors might lose more than the amount of their investment
                                                         B.     investors might lose their investment
                                                         C.     creditors of the corporation cannot seek relief from the shareholders
                                                         D.     investors are not liable to the full extent of their personal property

                                                    4.   All of the following are considered to be risks of owning common stock
                                                         EXCEPT
                                                         A.     market risk
                                                         B.     possible decrease in dividend payments
                                                         C.     removal of voting rights
                                                         D.     low priority of claim at dissolution

                                                    Quick Quiz answers can be found at the end of the session.



             4. 1. 4             PREFERRED STOCK
                                      Preferred stock is an equity security because it represents a class of ownership in the
                                 issuing corporation. However, it does share some characteristics with a debt security. Just
                                 as with debt securities, the rate of return on a preferred stock is fixed rather than subject
                                 to variation as with common stock. As a result, its price tends to fluctuate with changes in
                                 interest rates rather than with the issuing company’s business prospects unless, of course,
                                 dramatic changes occur in the company’s ability to pay dividends. This concept, known as
                                 interest rate or money rate risk, will be covered in greater detail later in the next session
                                 covering fixed-income securities.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 278                                                                                                               7/15/2016 2:02:58 PM
                                              Session 4   Types and Characteristics of Equity Securities Including Methods Used to Determine Their Value      279




                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                                Unlike common stock, most preferred stock is nonvoting.




                                !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                                Like common stock, preferred stock represents ownership in a company, but
                                                           its price reacts to the market more like a bond because with its fixed dividend
                                                           payment, its price is sensitive to interest rate changes.


                        4. 1. 4. 1       Benefits of Preferred Stock
                                        Although preferred stock does not typically have the same growth potential as com-
                                     mon stock, preferred stockholders have four advantages over common stockholders.
                                     ■■ When the board of directors declares dividends, owners of preferred stock must be paid
                                        prior to any payment to common stockholders.
                                     ■■ A preferred stock’s fixed dividend is a key feature for income-oriented investors. Nor-
                                        mally, a preferred stock is identified by its annual dividend payment stated as a per-
                                        centage of its par value. A preferred stock with a par value of $100 that pays $6 in
                                        annual dividends would be known as a 6% preferred. The dividend of preferred stock
                                        with no par value is stated in a dollar amount (e.g., a $6 no-par preferred).
                                     ■■ If a corporation goes bankrupt, preferred stockholders have a priority claim over com-
                                        mon stockholders on the assets remaining after creditors have been paid.
                                     ■■ Although it is generally regarded as a fixed-income investment, preferred stock,
                                        unlike debt securities, usually has no preset date at which it matures and no scheduled
                                        redemption date. Preferred stock is thus a perpetual security.



                                  !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                               Because the primary objective met by investing in preferred stock is income,
                                                           when analyzing a specific preferred stock, the most important determination
                                                           should be the ability of the company to meet its dividend payments.


                        4. 1. 4. 2       Types of Preferred Stock
                                          There are several different types of preferred stock starting with straight preferred
                                     (think of “plain vanilla”) and expanding depending on which and how many adjectives
                                     we use to describe the security. However, all maintain preference over common stock.
                                     Remember, preferred stock is an equity security and, just as with common stock, dividends
                                     are paid at the discretion of the Board of Directors. What is special about preferred stock
                                     is that no dividend can ever be paid to the common stockholders unless the preferred is
                                     satisfied first.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 279                                                                                                                             7/15/2016 2:02:58 PM
     280        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         A preferred stock could be cumulative and callable, callable and convert-
                                                    ible, or any combination of these adjectives. If none are listed, it is just a straight
                                                    preferred.




                             Q
                   QUICK QUIZ 4.B                   1.   An investor who has purchased preferred stock with the goal of receiving
                                                         steady quarterly income would be most interested in the
                                                         A.   seniority of the stock compared to other securities
                                                         B.   ability of the company to continue paying the stated dividend
                                                         C.   voting power of the shares
                                                         D.   parity price of the shares

                                                    2.   Which of the following types of preferred stock is most influenced by the
                                                         price of an issuer’s common stock?
                                                         A.   Cumulative
                                                         B.   Straight
                                                         C.   Convertible
                                                         D.   Callable


                   4. 1. 4. 3         Risks of Owning Preferred Stock
                                    In summation, why would you include preferred stock in a client’s portfolio?
                                 ■■ Fixed income from dividends
                                 ■■ Prior claim ahead of common stock
                                 ■■ Convertible preferred sacrifices income in exchange for potential appreciation

                                    In doing so, the client would be incurring the following risks:
                                 ■■ Market risk—in an economic downturn, fear of an inability to maintain the dividend
                                    will cause the price to drop
                                 ■■ Possible loss of purchasing power
                                 ■■ Interest rate (money rate) risk
                                 ■■ Business difficulties leading to possible reduction or elimination of the dividend and
                                    even bankruptcy leading to loss of principal


             4. 1. 5             INVESTING IN FOREIGN MARKETS

                                     Although foreign securities offer investors the potential for substantial gains, they
                                 bear a variety of risks that are not present with domestic investments. There are two broad
                                 market classifications of foreign markets: emerging and developed.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 280                                                                                                                    7/15/2016 2:02:59 PM
                                       Session 4   Types and Characteristics of Equity Securities Including Methods Used to Determine Their Value      281




                        4. 1. 5. 1   Emerging Markets
                                     Emerging markets are markets in lesser developed countries. They are generally asso-
                                 ciated with:
                                 ■■ low levels of income, as measured by the country’s gross domestic product (GDP);
                                 ■■ low levels of equity capitalization;
                                 ■■ questionable market liquidity;
                                 ■■ potential restrictions on currency conversion;
                                 ■■ high volatility;
                                 ■■ prospects for economic growth and development;
                                 ■■ stabilizing political and social institutions;
                                 ■■ high taxes and commission costs for foreign investor;
                                 ■■ restrictions on foreign ownership and on foreign currency conversion; and
                                 ■■ lower regulatory standards resulting in a lack of transparency.

                                     Despite primitive market infrastructures, many emerging markets have rapid growth
                                 rates that make their securities attractive to foreign investors whose local markets experi-
                                 ence more modest growth.


                        4. 1. 5. 2   Developed Markets
                                    Developed markets are those associated with countries that have highly developed
                                 economies with stable political and social institutions. These are characterized by:
                                 ■■ large levels of equity capitalization;
                                 ■■ low commission rates;
                                 ■■ few, if any, currency conversion restrictions;
                                 ■■ highly liquid markets with many brokerage institutions and market makers;
                                 ■■ many large capitalization securities; and
                                 ■■ well-defined regulatory schemes leading to transparency similar to that enjoyed by
                                    those investing in U.S. securities.

                                    In summation, why would you include foreign securities in a client’s portfolio?
                                 ■■ You have expanded the potential investment universe leading to greater diversification.
                                 ■■ Foreign securities sometimes outperform domestic ones.
                                 ■■ Foreign securities are usually not highly correlated with domestic ones (correlation is
                                    covered in Unit 3) and, as a result, the overall risk of the portfolio is reduced.

                                     In doing so, whether investing in the securities of emerging or developed foreign mar-
                                 kets, the investor faces, in addition to the normal risks involved in investing, the following
                                 risks not present in domestic investing:
                                 ■■ Country risk
                                 ■■ Exchange controls
                                 ■■ Currency risk
                                 ■■ Withholding taxes and fees




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 281                                                                                                                      7/15/2016 2:02:59 PM
     282        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                   4. 1. 5. 3         Country Risk
                                     Country risk is a composite of all the risks of investing in a particular country.
                                 These may include political risks, such as revolutions or military coups, and structural
                                 risks, such as confiscatory policies toward profits, capital gains, and dividends. Economic
                                 policies, interest rates, and inflation are also elements of risk of investing in emerging
                                 countries.

                   4. 1. 5. 4         Withholding, Fees, and Taxes
                                     Some foreign countries may withhold a portion of dividends and capital gains for
                                 taxes. Some also impose heavy fees and taxes on securities that the investor must bear in
                                 addition to generally higher brokerage commissions.


             4. 1. 6             RIGHTS AND WARRANTS

                                     Rights and warrants allow investors to buy additional shares of stock under defined
                                 circumstances.


                   4. 1. 6. 1         Rights
                                     Preemptive rights entitle existing common stockholders to maintain their propor-
                                 tionate ownership shares in a company by buying newly issued shares before the company
                                 offers them to the general public.


                   4. 1. 6. 2         Warrants
                                     A warrant is a certificate granting its owner the right to purchase securities from the
                                 issuer at a specified price, normally higher than the current market price. Unlike a right,
                                 a warrant is usually a long-term instrument that gives the investor the option of buying
                                 shares at a later date at the exercise price.



                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                        Because the value of rights and warrants is dependent upon the value of the
                                                    underlying stock into which the right or warrant may be exchanged, these are
                                                    considered derivatives (more about them coming up later).




                             Q
                  QUICK QUIZ 4.C                    1.   Sensitivity to changes in current market interest rates is generally the greatest
                                                         in which of the following?
                                                         A.   Common stock
                                                         B.   Preferred stock
                                                         C.   Rights
                                                         D.   Warrants




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 282                                                                                                                   7/15/2016 2:02:59 PM
                                       Session 4   Types and Characteristics of Equity Securities Including Methods Used to Determine Their Value      283




                                                    2.   The term derivative security could be used to describe
                                                         A.   common stock
                                                         B.   preferred stock
                                                         C.   voting trust certificates
                                                         D.   warrants



                   4. 1. 7       METHODS USED TO DETERMINE THE VALUE OF
                                 EQUITY SECURITIES
                                     The two approaches most commonly used to select investments are fundamental and
                                 technical analysis. Both fundamental and technical analysts attempt to forecast prices or
                                 values of securities and markets.
                                     Fundamental analysts evaluate broad-based economic trends, current business condi-
                                 tions within an industry, and the quality of a particular corporation’s business, finances,
                                 and management. Technical analysts attempt to predict the direction of prices on the
                                 basis of charts reflecting price and trading volume patterns of specific securities without
                                 regard to the issuer’s profitability. We will limit our discussion to fundamental analysis
                                 because that is the focus of the exam.
                                     Fundamental analysis is the study of the business prospects of an individual company
                                 within the context of its industry and the overall economy. They do this by examining
                                 the company in detail, including the financial statements and company management. We
                                 could compare this to an individual receiving a full physical examination which, in addi-
                                 tion to all kinds of tests, would include a detailed family medical history. With a company,
                                 the financial statement analysis is like the blood tests, x-rays, stress test, and so forth, and
                                 the evaluation of the company’s management is like the medical history. One of the ways
                                 these analysts attempt to determine the value of common stock is through the use of divi-
                                 dend models.


                        4. 1. 7. 1   Dividend Models
                                     Some analysts believe that the value of a stock can be determined based upon current
                                 or anticipated dividends. The models work best with a company with dividends that are
                                 paid with regularity, so it is more popular with larger, well-established organizations than
                                 smaller companies with irregular dividend distributions. Two models used are the dividend
                                 discount model and the dividend growth model.

                                 4. 1. 7. 1. 1 Dividend Discount Model
                                     This model states that the value of a stock should be equal to the present value of all
                                 future dividends. There are several methods to use, such as assuming constant or variable
                                 dividends, but the concept is still the same. We take the investor’s expected future returns
                                 (the dividends), and then discount that amount to compute the present value. It is not
                                 necessary to know the formula for the exam; however, it can be calculated by dividing
                                 the annual dividend by the expected return, sometimes referred to as the required rate of
                                 return. For example, if a stock pays a $1.20 dividend and the required rate of return in the
                                 marketplace is 6%, the stock should be worth $20 (1.20/.06).
                                     This tool may also be used to value preferred stock. Let’s take a look at the following
                                 example:




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 283                                                                                                                      7/15/2016 2:02:59 PM
     284        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                             *
                         EXAMPLE                         If you have a $100 par, 6% preferred stock and the required rate of return is
                                                    8%, what should the current market price of the stock be? You might encounter
                                                    a question similar to this on the exam and you solve it by dividing the $6 divi-
                                                    dend (6% of the $100 par) by the 8% required rate of return: $6.00/.08 = $75.
                                                    In other words, if this preferred stock is selling for $75 per share, the $6 annual
                                                    dividend will produce an 8% return on your investment.


                                 4. 1. 7. 1. 2 Dividend Growth Model
                                     This model assumes that the amount of the annual dividend will grow at a constant
                                 rate. Since projections of future growth can be hazy, this model is best used in conjunc-
                                 tion with other forecasting tools. It is not necessary to know the formula for the exam;
                                 however, it can be calculated by taking the current dividend, multiplying it by 1+ the
                                 dividend growth, and then dividing it by the remainder of the required rate of return less
                                 the expected growth rate. For example, if a stock pays a $1.20 dividend that is expected
                                 to grow at a 3% rate each year with a required rate of return of 6%, the stock should be
                                 worth $41.20 (1.236/.03). This is significantly higher than a stock with dividends that are
                                 expected to remain constant.



                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT                        If you are asked on the exam, “Which model forecasts a higher stock price?”
                                                    it should be common sense the answer that factors in “growth” is the correct
                                                    answer. Remember, you will never have to do this computation on the test.




                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                        There are other fundamental tools used to value equity securities and we will
                                                    cover a few of them in Unit 3 when we discuss financial statement analysis and
                                                    the business cycle.



             4. 1. 8             TECHNICAL ANALYSIS
                                     While fundamental analysis looks at the company, technical analysis looks at the mar­
                                 ket. A fundamental analyst attempts to measure the business or financial risk inherent in
                                 investing in a particular security, whereas technical analysis is used by an analyst to mea-
                                 sure the market risk assumed when investing in a particular security. You have to know the
                                 goal of technical analysis and several of the more popular technical systems.
                                     Technical analysis is a method of attempting to predict stock price trends over the
                                 near term, generally four to six weeks. The prediction is based on current stock price
                                 trends and the relationship of the present trend to prior trends. These trends are measured
                                 through charts of price movements; therefore, it would be correct to say that a technician
                                 uses charts to attempt to predict future price movements in an effort to reduce timing risk.
                                 In using these charts of price movements, a technician also uses the trading volume of the
                                 stock in an attempt to validate the trends. Let’s start by defining some key terms.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 284                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:02:59 PM
                                              Session 4   Types and Characteristics of Equity Securities Including Methods Used to Determine Their Value      285




                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                                A technical analyst charts a stock’s price and volume over a period of time.


                        4. 1. 8. 1       Trendlines
                                          In an effort to see where the price of stock may be going, the technician charts where
                                     it has been. He attempts to determine from his chart what the trend has been by drawing
                                     a trendline. A popular saying is, “the trend is your friend.”


                        4. 1. 8. 2       Support and Resistance
                                          Chartists believe that one can understand more about a stock by studying its chart.
                                     Two of the most important conclusions drawn from a chart are the support levels and
                                     resistance levels. The support level is that price where the stock price “bottoms.” That is,
                                     once it gets that low, there becomes an imbalance between buyers and sellers (more inves-
                                     tors seek to buy than sell) and the price begins to rise. The opposite is the resistance level
                                     where the stock’s price reaches a high enough level where there are now more sellers than
                                     buyers and the stock no longer rises in price. Just think of the English definitions of the
                                     terms and it makes sense. That is, support is where you stop falling and resistance is where
                                     you can’t go any higher.

                                     4. 1. 8. 2. 1 Breakout
                                         When the price movement penetrates the support or the resistance level, it is known
                                     as a breakout. To avoid misreading an insignificant change, most analysts agree that the
                                     breakout is confirmed as valid when the movement is at least 3% penetration. For exam-
                                     ple, if a stock had a support level of 25, analysts would not confirm a breakout until the
                                     price had fallen at least 75 cents of a point (3% × 25) to 24.25. A second factor confirm-
                                     ing the breakout is that the volume during a breakout is higher than normal during the
                                     charted period. The analyst believes that once a breakout has been confirmed, there will
                                     be rapid price movement in the direction of the break until a new support or resistance
                                     level is established. A technician believes that stock should be accumulated (bought) as
                                     the trendline is moving up from sup­port to resistance and should be distributed (sold) as
                                     the trendline begins moving down from resistance toward support. It is just a strange way
                                     of saying buy low and sell high. The technician believes that if a breakout through resis-
                                     tance can be spotted, it represents a good buy­ing opportunity for those quick enough to
                                     take advantage. Conversely, a breakout through the support level would represent a good
                                     opportunity for short sellers able to move quickly.


                        4. 1. 8. 3       Moving Averages
                                         To avoid the volatility frequently present in stock price trends, analysts will use the
                                     moving average. A moving average attempts to modify the fluctuations of stock prices
                                     into a smoothed trend; the distortions are reduced to a minimum. For example, to plot a
                                     13-week moving average on a particular stock, take the Friday closing price for each of the
                                     previous 13 weeks, add them together, and divide by 13. That number will be the average
                                     closing price for the last 13 weeks and that number is plotted. The next week you would




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 285                                                                                                                             7/15/2016 2:02:59 PM
     286        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                 add the new closing price for that week and delete the closing price for the first week used,
                                 14 weeks ago. Unless the two prices were exactly the same, this would be a new total and,
                                 when divided by 13, a new average would be plotted for this week. One would continue
                                 to add a price and drop a price each week—hence, the term moving average. This average
                                 would be plotted on the same chart as the actual current price movement of the stock.
                                 Changes in the trend of the stock being plotted are identified, not by a change in the
                                 direction of the moving average, but by the price of the security crossing over the mov-
                                 ing average. If the stock price moved below the moving average, it is usually a signal of a
                                 change from a rising to declining market. The reverse is also true.


             4. 1. 9             TECHNICAL MARKET THEORIES
                                      Technical analysts follow various theories regarding market trends.


                   4. 1. 9. 1         Short Interest Theory
                                     Short interest refers to the number of shares that have been sold short. Because short
                                 positions must be repurchased eventually, some analysts believe that short interest reflects
                                 mandatory demand that creates a support level for stock prices. High short interest is a
                                 bullish indicator, and low short interest is a bearish indicator.


                   4. 1. 9. 2         Odd-Lot Theory
                                     Typically, small investors engage in odd-lot trading, which is transactions of fewer
                                 than 100 shares. Odd-lot theorists believe that small investors invariably buy and sell at
                                 the wrong times. When odd-lot traders buy, odd-lot analysts are bearish. When odd-lot
                                 traders sell, odd-lot analysts are bullish.


                   4. 1. 9. 3         Advance/Decline Theory
                                     The number of issues closing up or down on a specific day reflects market breadth.
                                 The number of advances and declines can be a significant indication of the market’s rela-
                                 tive strength. When declines outnumber advances by a large amount, the market is bear-
                                 ish even if it closed higher. In bull markets, advances substantially outnumber declines.
                                 Technical ana­lysts plot daily advances and declines on a graph to produce an advance/
                                 decline line that gives them an indication of market breadth trends.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 286                                                                                                       7/15/2016 2:02:59 PM
                                    Session 4   Types and Characteristics of Equity Securities Including Methods Used to Determine Their Value      287




                             Q
                        QUICK QUIZ 4.D           Match the following items with technical or fundamental analysis.
                                                      A. Technical analysis
                                                      B. Fundamental analysis

                                                      —— 1. Market timing

                                                      —— 2. PE ratios

                                                      —— 3. Support and resistance

                                                      —— 4. Industry performance

                                                      —— 5. Breadth of the market

                                                      —— 6. Financial statements

                                                 7.   Among the popular methods of valuing equity securities is the dividend
                                                      growth model. One could expect to see an analyst using this to value any of
                                                      these EXCEPT
                                                      A.   common stock
                                                      B.   ADRs represent common stock in a foreign company
                                                      C.   preferred stock
                                                      D.   none of these are exceptions




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 287                                                                                                                   7/15/2016 2:02:59 PM
       288         Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




             Q U I C K               Q U I Z           A N S W E R S

       Quick Quiz 4.A                                                        Quick Quiz 4.C

           1. C.       Owning either common or preferred stocks                1. B.   Because the dividend rate on preferred stock
                       represents ownership (or equity) in a                           is fixed, its market price tends to be highly
                       corporation.                                                    sensitive to changes in interest rates.

           2. B.       One does not have access to insider                     2. D.   A derivative security, as covered later in
                       information solely by becoming a                                this unit, is a security that derives its value
                       shareholder. Even if one did receive material                   from some other asset. In this question, only
                       nonpublic information, such as prior access                     warrants meet that definition.
                       to earnings, no benefit may be received from
                       that information. All of the other choices            Quick Quiz 4.D
                       are among the reasons to purchase common
                       stock.                                                  1. A.

           3. A.       An advantage of owning stock is that an                 2. B.
                       investor’s liability is limited to the amount
                                                                               3. A.
                       of money invested when the stock was
                       purchased.                                              4. B.
           4. C.       Owning common stock subjects one to                     5. A.
                       market risk, the possibility that dividends
                       may be reduced, and the fact that they have             6. B.
                       the last priority in claims against the assets of
                       the corporation. The right to vote cannot be            7. C.   In order to use the dividend growth model,
                       taken away.                                                     there must be a possibility of dividend
                                                                                       growth. Because preferred stock dividends are
       Quick Quiz 4.B                                                                  fixed, this tool would not make any sense.

           1. B.       Investors in preferred stock with the goal
                       of income are most concerned that the
                       company will be able to sustain the dividend.

           2. C.       Because convertible can be exchanged for
                       common shares, its price is closely linked to
                       the price of the issuer’s common.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 288                                                                                                               7/15/2016 2:02:59 PM
                             5
                             Types and Characteristics
                             of Fixed Income (Debt)
                             Securities and Methods
                             Used to Determine Their
                             Value


                             I
                                 n addition to raising capital through the issuance of equity securities
                                 (stock), many corporations fund their business efforts through borrowing
                                 by issuing debt securities. Long-term borrowing is usually in the form of
                             bonds and debentures, while the money market is used for short-term needs.
                             Governmental bodies can only issue debt securities (you cannot buy stock in
                             the U.S. Treasury or your state).
                                  The Series 66 exam will include 5 questions on the material presented in
                             this session. ■




                                                                                                         289




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 289                                                                         7/15/2016 2:02:59 PM
            OBJECTIVES


                                 When you have completed this session, you should be able to:

                             ■■ recognize the unique features of U.S. Government and TIPS issues;

                             ■■ differentiate between secured and unsecured corporate debt;

                             ■■ identify the two major types of municipal bonds;

                             ■■ summarize how pass-through securities work;

                             ■■ describe the unique characteristics of zero coupon bonds;

                             ■■ compare current yield, yield to maturity and yield to call;

                             ■■ evaluate the effect of a bond’s duration on its market price; and

                             ■■ list the components of a discounted cash flow computation.




      290




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 290                                                                          7/15/2016 2:03:00 PM
                                     Session 5   Types and Characteristics of Fixed Income (Debt) Securities and Methods Used to Determine Their Value      291




                   5. 1          FIXED INCOME (DEBT SECURITIES)

                                          Debt capital represents money loaned to an issuer by investors purchasing that issu-
                                     er’s bonds. A bond represents the issuer’s indebtedness. There is, in essence, a contract
                                     between the borrower (the issuer) and the lender (the investor). An investor purchasing
                                     a bond is lending the issuer money for a set period of time at a fixed annual interest rate.
                                          There are three major issuers of debt securities. The largest issuer of debt securities is
                                     the U.S. government. Corporations issue bonds to finance their operations and substantial
                                     sums are also borrowed by state governments and those political entities that are subdivi-
                                     sions of a state, such as cities, counties, towns, and so forth. These issues from state and
                                     local political entities are called municipal bonds. Whenever the word “government”
                                     is used in conjunction with a security on the exam, it means the federal government.
                                     Whenever the phrase “municipal security” is used on the exam, it is referring to a security
                                     issued by a state or other municipality.
                                          Let us begin this adventure by explaining the different types of bonds and their issuers.


                   5. 1. 1           U.S. GOVERNMENT SECURITIES
                                         U.S. Government bonds are the safest of all. There are two primary types of backing;
                                     direct government backing or guarantee, as in the case of Treasury issues, and the moral
                                     guarantee as in the case of federal agencies.


                        5. 1. 1. 1        U.S. Treasury Bills
                                         Treasury bills are direct short-term debt obligations of the U.S. government. They
                                     are issued every week by using a competitive bidding process. Each week, T-bills, as they
                                     are known, with maturities of 4 weeks, 13 weeks, and 26 weeks, are issued and once per
                                     month, 52-week bills are issued. The face value received would be considered interest
                                     income even though a separate interest check was never received.



                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                               Key points to remember regarding T-bills include: (1) Treasury bills are the
                                                          only Treasury security issued at a dis­count; (2) Treasury bills are the only Treasury
                                                          security issued without a stated interest rate; (3) Treasury bills are highly liquid;
                                                          and (4) 13-week (also referred to as 90-day) Treasury bills are used in market
                                                          analysis as the stereotypical “risk-free” investment, especially in computations
                                                          that refer to the “risk-free” rate.


                        5. 1. 1. 2        U.S. Treasury Notes
                                        U.S. Treasury notes are direct debt obligations of the U.S. Treasury with the following
                                     characteristics.
                                     ■■ They pay semiannual interest as a percentage of the stated par value.
                                     ■■ They have intermediate maturities (2, 3, 5, 7, and 10 years).
                                     ■■ They mature at par value.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 291                                                                                                                           7/15/2016 2:03:00 PM
     292        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                   5. 1. 1. 3         U.S. Treasury Bonds
                                    U.S. Treasury bonds are direct debt obligations of the U.S. Treasury with the following
                                 characteristics.
                                 ■■ They pay semiannual interest as a percentage of the stated par value.
                                 ■■ They have long-term maturities, generally 10–30 years.
                                 ■■ Older 30-year bonds are usually callable at par beginning 25 years after issue. However,
                                    the last callable 30-year bond was issued in November 1984.
                                 ■■ They mature at par value.



                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         When doing any calculations relating to bonds on the exam, the par or face
                                                    value will always be $1,000. This is true even though the above three Treasury
                                                    issues are available in denominations as low as $100.


                   5. 1. 1. 4         Treasury Inflation Protection Securities (TIPS)
                                      A special type of Treasury issue, Treasury Inflation Protection Securities (TIPS),
                                 helps protect investors against purchasing power risk. These notes are issued with a fixed
                                 interest rate, but the principal amount is adjusted semiannually by an amount equal to the
                                 change in the Consumer Price Index (CPI), the standard measurement of inflation. They
                                 are issued with maturities of 5, 10, and 30 years.
                                      The interest payment the investor receives every six months is equal to the fixed
                                 interest rate times the newly adjusted principal. During times of inflation, the interest
                                 payments increase, while during times of deflation, the interest payments fall. These notes
                                 are sold at lower interest rates than conventional fixed-rate Treasury notes because of their
                                 adjustable nature.
                                      Like other Treasury notes, TIPS are exempt from state and local income taxes on the
                                 interest income generated, but are subject to federal taxation. However, in any year when
                                 the principal is adjusted for inflation, that increase is considered reportable income for
                                 that year even though the increase will not be received until the note matures.




                             *
                         EXAMPLE                       If you have a TIPS bond with a 3% coupon and the annual inflation rate is
                                                    4% for the next two years, here is what happens:
                                                         Each six months, you will receive 1.5% (half of the annual 3% coupon) of
                                                    the principal value as adjusted for the inflation rate. If the inflation rate is 4%
                                                    per year, that is 2% each six months. So, after the first semiannual period, the
                                                    principal value of the bond is now $1,020 ($1,000 + 2% of $1,000, or 102% ×
                                                    $1,000). Therefore, the first interest check will be 1.5% × $1,020, or $15.30. Six
                                                    months later, the adjusted principal value is $1,040.40 (102% × $1,020), so that
                                                    interest check will be for $15.61 ($1,040.40 × 1.5%). As we continue into the
                                                    next year, the principal will increase to $1,061.21 ($1,040.40 × 102%) and the
                                                    interest check will be for $15.92. Since we’re only looking at two years, the end-
                                                    ing principal value will be $1,082.43 with the final interest check of $16.24. As




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 292                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:03:00 PM
                                 Session 5   Types and Characteristics of Fixed Income (Debt) Securities and Methods Used to Determine Their Value      293




                                                      you can see, both the income from the TIPS and its principal value are increasing
                                                      at a compounded rate based upon inflation.
                                                           We know that some of you may be mathematically challenged so here is a
                                                      shortcut that will always work. The key to the increased principal value of the
                                                      TIPS is that the interest is compounding. But, you don’t have to do that. In this
                                                      example, the inflation rate is 4%. Using just simple interest would mean that
                                                      the principal would increase by $40 (4% of $1,000) per year. After two years,
                                                      that would be $80 or a new principal amount of $1,080. However, we know
                                                      that compounding will give us more so we choose the first number given in the
                                                      answers that is above $1,080. The same “trick” can be used to determine the
                                                      final interest payment. We take 1.5% of $1,080 ($16.20) and look for an answer
                                                      choice that is slightly higher.




                               !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT

                                                      1.
                                                           The Series 66 exam may ask questions similar to the following.
                                                           A customer wishes to buy a security providing periodic interest payments,
                                                           safety of principal, and protection from purchasing power risk. The customer
                                                           should purchase
                                                           A.   TIPS
                                                           B.   TIGRS
                                                           C.   CMOs
                                                           D.   STRIPS
                                                           Answer: A. TIPS offer inflation protection and safety of principal because
                                                           they are backed by the U.S. government.

                                                      2.   A client has a TIPS with a coupon rate of 4.5%. The inflation rate has been
                                                           7% for the last year. What is the inflation-adjusted return?
                                                           A.   −2.5%
                                                           B.   4.5%
                                                           C.   7.0%
                                                           D.   11.5%
                                                           Answer: B. Treasury Inflation Protection Securities (TIPS) adjust the principal
                                                           value every 6 months to account for the inflation rate. Therefore, the real
                                                           rate of return will always be the coupon.


                        5. 1. 1. 5    U.S. Federal Agency Securities
                                    These bonds are issued by either agencies of the U.S. government or government-
                                 sponsored enterprises (GSEs), which are federally chartered corporations but publicly
                                 owned by stockholders. For example, the Government National Mortgage Association
                                 (Ginnie Mae) is part of the federal government. As such, GMNA securities carry the
                                 backing of the “full faith and credit” of the U.S. government.
                                    Bonds issued by GSEs would include those from the Federal National Mortgage
                                 Association (Fannie Mae) and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (Freddie
                                 Mac). Because GSEs are owned by shareholders and are not part of the federal govern-
                                 ment, these bonds are not backed by the government’s “full faith and credit” guarantee




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 293                                                                                                                       7/15/2016 2:03:00 PM
     294        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                 and are, therefore, subject to credit and default risk (although somewhat minimal because
                                 there is a “moral” guarantee).
                                      These issues pay interest on a semiannual basis (GNMAs make monthly distributions
                                 of interest and principal), and the interest is subject to income tax at both the state and
                                 federal basis.
                                      Many of these are mortgage-backed securities and have the same general characteris-
                                 tics and risks as CMOs (prepayment and reinvestment risk, for example).


                   5. 1. 1. 6         Benefits and Risks of Including Government Bonds in a Client’s
                                      Portfolio
                                 ■■ Highest safety of principal and interest payments
                                 ■■ Liquidity (there is a ready market for these securities)
                                 ■■ T-bills are a great place to keep “cash” while waiting for an investment opportunity
                                 ■■ TIPS give inflation protection
                                 ■■ Benefits of other bonds—fixed maturity date, regular income

                                    In doing so, the client would be incurring the following risks:
                                 ■■ Inflation risk (except TIPS)
                                 ■■ Interest rate risk
                                 ■■ Lower rates of return in exchange for greater safety




                             Q
                  QUICK QUIZ 5.A                    1.   All of the following debt instruments pay interest semiannually EXCEPT
                                                         A.   Ginnie Mae pass-through certificates
                                                         B.   U.S. Treasury notes
                                                         C.   U.S. Treasury bonds
                                                         D.   TIPS

                                                    Quick Quiz answers can be found at the end of the session.



             5. 1. 2             CORPORATE BONDS
                                     Corporate debt securities, like any other loan, may be either secured or unsecured.
                                 Secured debt securities are backed by various kinds of assets of the issuing corporation,
                                 whereas unsecured debt securities are backed only by the reputation, credit record, and
                                 financial stability of the corpo­ration. Regardless of whether secured or unsecured, the inter-
                                 est on debt securities is always paid before dividends on stock (preferred and common).


                   5. 1. 2. 1         Secured Bonds
                                      When a specific asset has been pledged as security (collateral) for the loan, the bond
                                 is said to be secured. Examples of these are mortgage bonds (real property is the security),
                                 equipment trust certificates (issued generally by transportation companies with rolling
                                 stock as collateral), and collateral trust bonds or certificates (with stock market collateral
                                 pledged as the security).




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 294                                                                                                         7/15/2016 2:03:00 PM
                                 Session 5   Types and Characteristics of Fixed Income (Debt) Securities and Methods Used to Determine Their Value      295




                                      If the company should default on its obligation, the collateral is used to satisfy the
                                 creditors. Because of their secured position, they are generally referred to as senior debt
                                 (first in line to collect).



                               !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                           However, as we have seen in recent years, there may be a situation where
                                                      foreclosing on the property results in a sale below the outstanding mortgage bal-
                                                      ance. In that case, the mortgage holder becomes a general creditor for the unsat-
                                                      isfied balance. The same would be true for any other collateral pledged.


                        5. 1. 2. 2    Unsecured Debt
                                     It is common for corporations to borrow money on their general credit standing,
                                 pledging no specific asset as collateral. In this case, the issue is called a debenture. The
                                 credit standing of some issuers is so strong that investors prefer buying their debentures
                                 to secured bonds of lesser companies. Because debentures are unsecured obligations, they
                                 are considered general creditors and come behind the secured ones in the event of default.

                                 5. 1. 2. 2. 1 Subordinated Debt

                                      The term subordinated means “belonging to a lower or inferior class or rank; second-
                                 ary.” It is usually describing a debenture. A subordinated debenture has a claim that is
                                 behind (junior to) that of any other creditor. However, no matter how subordinated the
                                 debenture, it is still senior to any stockholder.



                               !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                         When examining the capital structure of a corporation, it is important to
                                                      know the liquidation priority:
                                                           ■■ Secured creditors (e.g., mortgage bonds, equipment trust certificates,
                                                              collateral trust bonds)

                                                           ■■ Unsecured creditors (e.g., general creditors including debenture holders)

                                                           ■■ Subordinated debt holders

                                                           ■■ Preferred stockholders

                                                           ■■ Common stockholders

                                                           However, the exam may want you to know about the priority of items that
                                                      are not securities. Even though they are not legally considered secured assets,
                                                      highest priority is given to wages (up to about $12,000 earned in the 180 days
                                                      prior to the employer’s declaration of bankruptcy) followed by taxes.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 295                                                                                                                       7/15/2016 2:03:00 PM
     296        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                                                Features of Various Securities Issues
                                                                 Common Stock          Preferred Stock               Bonds
                                 Ownership and              Belongs to common      Limited rights, may       Limited rights under
                                 control of the firm        stockholders through   include a participation   default in interest
                                                            voting rights and      feature                   payments
                                                            residual claim to
                                                            income
                                 Obligation to provide      None                   Must receive before       Contractual obligation
                                 return                                            common stockholder
                                 Claim to assets in         Lowest claim of any    Bondholders and           Highest claim
                                 bankruptcy                 security holder        creditors must be
                                                                                   satisfied first
                                 Risk-return trade-off      Higher risk, higher    Moderate risk,          Low risk, moderate
                                                            return                 moderate return (dollar return
                                                                                   amount of dividend is
                                                                                   known before stock
                                                                                   purchase)
                                 Tax status of payment Taxable as dividend in      Taxable as dividend in    Taxable as ordinary
                                 to recipient          most cases                  most cases                income in most cases



                   5. 1. 2. 3         Benefits and Risks of Including Corporate Bonds in a Client’s
                                      Portfolio
                                 ■■ With highly rated bonds, safety of principal
                                 ■■ Steady stream of income
                                 ■■ Fixed maturity date (you know when the money is coming back)
                                 ■■ With speculative bonds, possibility of very high income

                                    In doing so, the client would be incurring the following risks.
                                 ■■ Regardless of the rating, things can change and there is the possibility of default.
                                 ■■ As a fixed dollar investment, there is inflation risk.
                                 ■■ With a fixed rate of return, there is interest rate risk.


             5. 1. 3             MUNICIPAL BONDS
                                    The record of safety of principal of municipal bonds is second only to that of govern-
                                 ment issues. There are two basic types of municipal bonds.


                   5. 1. 3. 1         General Obligation Bonds (GOs)
                                     General obligation bonds are backed by a pledge of the issuer’s full faith and credit for
                                 prompt payment of principal and interest. Most city, county, and school district bonds have
                                 the further distinction of being secured by a pledge of unlimited ad valorem (property)
                                 taxes to be levied against all taxable property. Because GOs are geared to tax resources,
                                 they are normally analyzed in terms of the size of the resources being taxed. They are gen-
                                 erally very safe.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 296                                                                                                            7/15/2016 2:03:00 PM
                                     Session 5   Types and Characteristics of Fixed Income (Debt) Securities and Methods Used to Determine Their Value      297




                        5. 1. 3. 2        Revenue Bond
                                         Revenue bonds are payable from the earnings of a revenue-producing enterprise, such
                                     as a water, sewer, electric or gas system, toll bridge, air­port, college dormitory, or other
                                     income-producing facility.
                                         Authorities and agencies are created by states or their subdivisions to perform specific
                                     functions, such as the operation of water, sewer, or electric systems, bridges, tunnels, or
                                     highways and in some states, to construct schools or public facilities. In some cases, the
                                     authority has the right to levy fees and charges for its services. In other cases, it receives
                                     lease rentals, which may be payable from specific revenues or may be general obligations
                                     of the lessee. They are usually analyzed in terms of their earnings, historical or potential,
                                     compared with bond requirements. The yield, generally, is higher for this type of bond
                                     than for a GO (taxes are more secure than revenues), although many have built up a good
                                     record over a long period of time and are sometimes rated higher than GOs.



                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                               There is one unique characteristic shared by both GO and revenue bonds.
                                                          Interest received by investors is free of any federal income tax and, in the case of
                                                          bonds in their state of issuance, generally free of state income tax as well.


                        5. 1. 3. 3        Benefits and Risks of Including Municipal Bonds in a Client’s
                                          Portfolio
                                     ■■ A safety rating second only to that of U.S. government securities
                                     ■■ Tax-free income (especially beneficial to those in higher tax brackets)

                                        In doing so, the client would be incurring the following risks:
                                     ■■ Credit risk (some municipalities have defaulted in the past)
                                     ■■ Inflation risk and interest rate risk as with any other bonds
                                     ■■ Possible alternative minimum tax (AMT—to be covered in Unit 4) on some revenue
                                        bonds




                                Q
                        QUICK QUIZ 5.B                    1.   In the event of a company’s insolvency, which of the following has first claim
                                                               on assets?
                                                               A.   Bondholders.
                                                               B.   Preferred stockholders.
                                                               C.   Common stockholders.
                                                               D.   Members of the board of directors.

                                                          2.   Corporate bonds are considered safer than common stock issued by the
                                                               same company because
                                                               A.   the par value of bonds is generally higher than that of stock
                                                               B.   bonds and similar fixed-rate securities are guaranteed by SIPC
                                                               C.   bonds place the issuer under an obligation but stock does not
                                                               D.   if there is a shortage of cash, dividends are paid before interest




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 297                                                                                                                           7/15/2016 2:03:01 PM
     298        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




             5. 1. 4             RATINGS

                                     The purchase of a debt security is only as safe as who the borrower is and what is
                                 received for collateral. Because safety of the bond will frequently be a very important
                                 consideration for clients, consult the rating services. The two primary rating organizations
                                 for debt securities are Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s. Both organizations have highly
                                 qualified personnel who ana­lyze all the details of the debt issue and arrive at a letter rating
                                 indicat­ing their opinion of the debt’s quality (safety).


                   5. 1. 4. 1         Investment-Grade Debt
                                     In the industry, bonds rated in the top four categories (BBB or Baa and higher) are
                                 referred to as investment grade. Investment-grade bonds are generally the only quality
                                 eligible for purchase by the institutions (e.g., banks or insurance companies) and by fidu-
                                 ciaries and therefore have greater liquidity than lower grade instruments.


                   5. 1. 4. 2         High-Yield Bonds
                                      Lower-grade bonds, known in the industry as junk bonds, are now more commonly
                                 called high-yield bonds. Because of their lower ratings (BB or Ba or lower) and additional
                                 risk of default, high-yield bonds may be subject to substantial price erosion during slow
                                 economic times or when a bond issuer’s creditworthiness is questioned. Their volatility
                                 is usually sub­stantially higher than investment-grade bonds, but they may be suitable for
                                 sophisticated investors seeking higher returns and possible capital appre­ciation from spec-
                                 ulative fixed-income investments.


                   5. 1. 4. 3         Yield Spread (Credit Spread)
                                      It should be obvious that the greater the risk, the higher the yield on the bond. Many
                                 analysts compare the difference between yields on bonds with the same maturity, but dif-
                                 ferent quality (rating) to get a sense of the market sentiment. One common measurement
                                 is the difference in yields between Treasuries and corporate bonds. This difference is called
                                 the yield spread and tends to widen when economic conditions sour and narrow when
                                 they get better.
                                      Yield spread can also be used between issues of the same issuer. For example, one of the
                                 most popular measurements of attitudes regarding future economic conditions is the yield
                                 spread between the 2-year Treasury note and the 10-year Treasury bond. When investors
                                 are feeling optimistic about the economy, the yield spread narrows; when pessimistic, the
                                 yield spread widens.


             5. 1. 5             COLLATERALIZED MORTGAGE OBLIGATIONS (CMOS)
                                     These are debt securities that are collateralized by mortgages. CMOs are issued with a
                                 stated maturity: some have short terms, some intermediate, and some long terms. As the
                                 principal on the mortgages is being paid, it is used exclusively for the newest maturity in
                                 sequence until each maturity has been paid off. Most of the mortgages are private mort-




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 298                                                                                                          7/15/2016 2:03:01 PM
                                 Session 5   Types and Characteristics of Fixed Income (Debt) Securities and Methods Used to Determine Their Value      299




                                 gages, not qualified under VA or FHA, as is the case with the mortgage-backed securities
                                 issued by GNMA and FNMA.
                                      One of the primary risks is prepayment risk. That is, very few mortgages ever run their
                                 full term; when mortgages in the portfolio are paid off early, either through refinancing or
                                 the sale of the home, the investor has to now search for a replacement investment. If inter-
                                 est rates have gone down, the investor will not be able to earn at the original rate. This is
                                 also a form of reinvestment risk.


                        5. 1. 5. 1    Risks to Investors
                                    There are a number of risks faced by investors in these securities:
                                 ■■ They are among the most complicated instruments and are, therefore, difficult to
                                    understand
                                 ■■ Prepayment risk due to mortgages being refinanced when rates drop
                                 ■■ Default risk particularly if the mortgages are subprime
                                 ■■ Reinvestment risk
                                 ■■ Liquidity risk


                        5. 1. 5. 2    Cash Flow Analysis
                                     Unlike the other debt securities we’ve discussed, trying to project your client’s cash
                                 flow on a portfolio of mortgage-backed securities has its challenges. Although they do
                                 have default risk (other than GNMAs), as do other debt securities, the specific risk due to
                                 the possible (some would say likely) prepayments complicates the computation.



                               !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                          When doing cash flow analysis on a mortgage-backed pass-through security,
                                                      you would want to know the average maturities.




                   5. 2       REPAYMENT OF PRINCIPAL

                                      As stated in the beginning of this session, in addition to receiving regular income from
                                 the investment, the investor does want to receive a return of the loan principal. Normally,
                                 one expects to be paid off when the debt matures. In some cases, the bond is issued with a
                                 call feature (callable), allowing the issuer to redeem the bond prior to maturity at a speci-
                                 fied price (the call price).


                   5. 2. 1       CALLABLE BONDS
                                     Bonds can be either callable or non­callable. Callability is a feature that permits the
                                 issuer to redeem its bonds (pay off the principal) before maturity if it so desires. The call
                                 feature is most often exercised when interest rates (borrowing costs) have declined. In this




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 299                                                                                                                       7/15/2016 2:03:01 PM
     300        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                 case, the issuer could take advantage of the lower cost of borrowing by issuing new bonds
                                 at the lower rate prevailing in the market and using those proceeds to call in the old bonds
                                 with their higher coupons. This is similar to refinancing a home mortgage, but in this busi-
                                 ness we use the term refunding. An issuer would not be interested in redeeming its bonds
                                 when interest rates have gone up and the bond prices have gone down; the cheapest way
                                 for the issuer to retire its debt is to buy it in the open market.


                   5. 2. 1. 1         Call Protection
                                      Before purchasing a bond, determine the extent of its call protection. Call protection
                                 is the number of years into the issue before the issuer may exercise the call provision. The
                                 best call protection a bond may have is if a bond is noncallable; in other words, the issuer
                                 cannot call it early, and the investor has the best protection against a call.


             5. 2. 2             CONVERTIBLE BONDS
                                     Convertible bonds are issued by corporations only. Since they may be converted or
                                 exchanged for the company’s common stock, there are no convertible municipal or gov­
                                 ernment bonds. The conversion privilege is exercised at the discretion of the investor.
                                 The ratio of conversion varies from one company’s bond to another according to the
                                 terms set forth in the indenture at the time the bonds are issued. The exact number of
                                 shares (or method of computing the number) that a particular bond will be convertible
                                 into at any point is printed in the bond indenture at the time of issue. Most convertibles
                                 are debentures.
                                     In many cases, the indenture merely tells you the number of shares into which the
                                 bond is convertible. For example, the bond may be convertible into 50 shares; thus, it
                                 would have a conversion ratio of 50:1, 50 shares for 1 bond. If a bond is convertible into
                                 25 shares, it would have a conversion ratio of 25:1.
                                     Frequently, instead of telling the number of shares into which the bond is convert-
                                 ible, the indenture will give the conversion price. That conversion price is the price per
                                 share that the corporation will sell their stock in exchange for the bond one is holding.
                                 Regardless of the current market price of the bond, the bond always represents a debt of
                                 the corporation of $1,000. Therefore, if the conversion price is given, to compute the
                                 number of shares into which the bond is convertible, always divide the par value ($1,000)
                                 by the conversion price. For example, a bond convertible at $20 per share is convertible
                                 into 50 shares ($1,000 ÷ $20 = 50 shares).
                                     If the bond has a conversion price of $50, the conversion ratio is 20 shares ($1,000
                                 ÷ $50 = 20 shares). If the JRP 6s of ‘31, currently selling at 120, were convertible at $40,
                                 how many shares would one get when one converted the bond? The answer is not 30. The
                                 current market has nothing to do with the computation. The bond conversion is fixed at
                                 issuance, and the market fluctuates all the time. The correct answer is 25 shares ($1,000
                                 ÷ $40 = 25 shares).
                                     The bond’s price will rise along with the stock. Most convertible bonds contain a call
                                 provision. If the market price of the bonds becomes sufficiently high, the company can
                                 force the investors to convert by exercising the call provision. This is known as forced
                                 conversion. The reason the bond price went up was because the underlying stock went up.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 300                                                                                                      7/15/2016 2:03:01 PM
                                 Session 5   Types and Characteristics of Fixed Income (Debt) Securities and Methods Used to Determine Their Value      301




                                 If a bond is called at a price significantly lower than its current market, it will be to the
                                 bondholder’s advantage to convert the bond into the stock. Once that occurs, the issuer
                                 owes nothing, since there is stock now where there once were bonds.


                        5. 2. 2. 1    Parity
                                     All of the comments we’ve made about convertible bonds (or convertible preferred)
                                 moving in relation to the underlying common stock is due to the concept of parity.
                                 According to the dictionary, when two things are at parity, they are equal. How does that
                                 work here? If you think about it, when holding a convertible security, we have a choice of
                                 two actions: we can either continue to hold the bond (or preferred), or, we can decide to
                                 convert it into the common. If the convertible security and the common stock we would
                                 get upon conversion are worth the same, we say they are at parity.


                   5. 2. 3       ZERO-COUPON BONDS
                                     The nominal (coupon) rate on a zero-coupon bond is zero. Zero-coupon bonds are
                                 issued at a substantial discount from par. They pay no interest, but the difference between
                                 the discounted price paid and the par value received at maturity makes up for the lack of
                                 a current interest coupon. For example, if an investor were to purchase a new zero-coupon
                                 bond for $500 that matured at par in 10 years, he would receive a profit of $500 in 10 years
                                 or an average of $50 per year on an out-of-pocket expenditure of $500. Here are the key
                                 things to remember about zero-coupon bonds.
                                 ■■ They are always issued at a discount.
                                 ■■ There is no reinvestment risk because there are no interest payments to worry about
                                     reinvesting.
                                 ■■ They are more volatile than other bonds of similar quality.
                                 ■■ Even though no periodic interest payments are received, the IRS requires the issuer to
                                     send a Form 1099-OID indicating the taxable interest to be reported each year.
                                 ■■ This investment is particularly useful when there is a target goal, such as a college
                                     education or a qualified retirement plan. This is particularly true because of the tax
                                     treatment previously mentioned. The child generally incurs little, if any, tax liability,
                                     and the earnings in the retirement plan are tax-deferred.

                                     In the case of zero-coupon corporate or municipal securities, there is a somewhat
                                 higher level of credit risk. (On a 20-year bond, the investor receives nothing until the
                                 maturity date, and if the issuer is insolvent at that time, the investor has received noth-
                                 ing during the entire 20 years.) However, no credit risk exists in the case of zero-coupon
                                 treasuries (known as STRIPS for Separate Trading of Registered Interest and Principal of
                                 Securities) because the risk of default on a U.S. government security, at least for purposes
                                 of this exam, is nonexistent.
                                     The major attraction of this type of investment is that it allows an investor to lock
                                 in a yield (or rate of return) for a predetermined, investor-selected time with no reinvest-
                                 ment risk. Because all zeroes are sold at discounts and have no current return, there is a
                                 great deal of price volatility. This point will be reviewed again later in this session at the
                                 discussion on duration.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 301                                                                                                                       7/15/2016 2:03:01 PM
     302        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




             5. 3            METHODS OF VALUING FIXED INCOME SECURITIES
                                     The nature of fixed income, being debt rather than equity, involves somewhat differ-
                                 ent methodology in determining proper valuation. After all, in most cases, these securities
                                 are purchased for their income rather than future capital appreciation. The first thing we
                                 will look at is the various yield computations that are applicable to debt securities.


             5. 3. 1             YIELD COMPUTATIONS
                                     The interest rate will always be stated as a percentage of the par value. The interest
                                 stated on the face of the bond is called the nominal yield. Sometimes it is referred to as the
                                 coupon rate. To compute the annual interest payments in dollars, multiply this nominal
                                 yield by the face amount of the bond ($1,000 unless stated otherwise). A bond with a 5%
                                 coupon rate pays $50 per year. One with an 8% nominal yield pays $80 per year. One with
                                 a coupon of 13.5% pays $135 per year. Because, on any particular bond, this interest pay-
                                 ment is the same every year, it is referred to as a fixed charge.



                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                        When a question states that a bond pays interest at a rate of 6% semian-
                                                    nually, that does not mean two payments of $60 per year. The interest rate is
                                                    always stated on an annual basis ($60 per year), and it is paid twice per year, $30
                                                    every 6 months.


                   5. 3. 1. 1         Current Yield
                                    Investors always want to know the return on their investment. The most straightfor-
                                 ward way to do that is to actually place the return on the investment as follows.
                                                                               Return
                                                                             Investment

                                     The return will always be the annual interest in dollars (if referring to a stock, the divi-
                                 dend in dollars) divided by the current market price (the amount of investment required
                                 to own the security). This calculation is called current yield or current return.
                                     Although most bonds are issued with a face, or par, value of $1,000, bond prices do
                                 fluctuate in the market. As stated earlier, the interest a bond pays is called its coupon rate
                                 or nominal yield. Look at this example: The DBL 10s of ’29. Regardless of what the market
                                 price of the bonds may be, DBL has an obligation to pay annual interest of 10% of the
                                 $1,000 face they borrowed.
                                     If an investor were to buy these bonds for more than $1,000 or less than $1,000, the
                                 return on the investment would not be 10%. For example, if these bonds had a current
                                 market value of $800, their current yield would be 12.5% ($100 ÷ $800). Similarly, some-
                                 one paying $1,200 for the bonds will receive a current yield of 8.33% ($100 ÷ $1,200).
                                 Please notice, the $100 interest received is the same in all cases regard­less of the current
                                 market price.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 302                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:03:01 PM
                                 Session 5   Types and Characteristics of Fixed Income (Debt) Securities and Methods Used to Determine Their Value      303




                                      Bond prices and yields move in opposite directions: as interest rates rise, bond prices
                                 fall and vice versa. When a bond trades at a discount, its current yield increases; when it
                                 trades at a premium, its current yield decreases.


                        5. 3. 1. 2    Discount and Premium
                                      When a bond is selling at a price above par (or face), it is selling at a premium; when it
                                 is selling below par, it is selling at a dis­count. Two critical statements to remember follow.

                                                                          If you pay more, you get less.

                                                                          If you pay less, you get more.

                                      An investor buying a bond at a premium will always receive a rate of return less than
                                 the coupon (or nominal) yield stated on the face of the bond (8.33% is less than 10%).
                                 Conversely, any time an investor purchases a bond at a discount, the return will be more
                                 than the rate stated on the face of the bond (12.5% is greater than 10%).
                                      In addition to being the dollar amount on which the annual interest was based, par
                                 value was also the dollar amount that would be returned to the investor at maturity.
                                 Therefore, an investor purchasing a bond at a discount knows that holding the bond until
                                 maturity date will result in a return of the par value, an amount which will be more than
                                 what was paid for the bond. An investor purchasing a bond at a premium and holding it
                                 until the maturity date, knows that the par value received will be less than what was paid
                                 for the bond. To accurately reflect this gain or loss that an investor will have upon matu-
                                 rity, there is another yield to consider—the yield to maturity, or true yield.



                               !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                           Another way you may be tested is by giving you a quoted yield and ask-
                                                      ing you for the price relative to par. For example, if a bond with a 5% coupon is
                                                      currently yielding 6%, is it selling at a discount, a premium, or par? Well, anytime
                                                      you are getting a yield higher than the coupon rate, the bond has to be selling at
                                                      a discount from par. Conversely, if the bond had a 5% coupon, but the current
                                                      return was 4%, the bond must be selling at a premium to par.
                                                           You may also be asked to determine which is higher (or lower), the current
                                                      yield or the yield to maturity. Since YTM accentuates the return by adding a
                                                      profit to a bond bought at a discount or subtracting the loss on a bond bought at
                                                      a premium, the YTM on a discount bond will always be higher than that bond’s
                                                      current yield and the reverse is true regarding a bond bought at a premium.


                        5. 3. 1. 3    Yield to Maturity or Basis
                                     This measurement takes into account the gain or loss the investor will have when
                                 the bonds are redeemed at maturity. The person who buys the bonds mentioned above at
                                 $800 will get back $1,000 if he holds the bonds to maturity, in addition to receiving $100
                                 per year interest (a current yield of 12.5% on his money). Consequently, this investor will
                                 have a gain of $200 on top of his annual interest. The individual paying $1,200 for the
                                 bonds will have a $200 loss at maturity when he gets back face value for them.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 303                                                                                                                       7/15/2016 2:03:01 PM
     304        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                     Whenever an investor pays less (buys at a discount), there will be a profit in addition
                                 to the annual interest, and whenever the investor pays more (buys at a premium), there
                                 will be a loss if held to maturity.
                                     Although you will not have to do a yield to maturity computation on the exam, some
                                 students find that seeing the numbers played out gives them a better understanding of the
                                 concept. Try to follow this example:




                             *
                         EXAMPLE                         An investor who buys a 10% coupon bond at 105 ($1,050 per bond) with
                                                    10 years remaining to maturity can expect $100 in interest per year. If he holds
                                                    the bond to maturity, the bondholder loses $50, the amount of the premium.
                                                    This loss is included in the YTM approximation.
                                                         The actual YTM calculation for this premium bond is shown below:

                                                                          Annual interest – (premium ÷ years to maturity)
                                                                                    Average price of the bond


                                                         A bond’s average price is the price paid plus the amount received at maturity
                                                    (par) divided by two. Alternatively, the average price is that price midway be-
                                                    tween the purchase price and par.

                                                                              100 − (50 ÷ 10)        95
                                                                                                =          = .093, or 9.3%
                                                                                    1025            1025
                                                         The YTM of a bond bought at a premium is always lower than both the cou-
                                                    pon rate (nominal yield) and the current yield. In this example, the nominal yield
                                                    is 10%, and the current yield is 9.52% (100 ÷ 1,050).
                                                         If an investor buys a 10-year bond with a 10% coupon for 95 ($950 per
                                                    bond), he receives $100 per year in coupon interest payments and a gain of $50
                                                    (the amount of the discount) at maturity. This gain is included in the YTM ap-
                                                    proximation.




                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         YTM is also called the market-driven yield because it reflects the internal rate
                                                    of return (IRR) from the bond investment.


                   5. 3. 1. 4         Yield to Call (YTC)
                                      A bond with a call feature may be redeemed before maturity at the issuer’s option.
                                 Unless the bond was bought at par, and is callable at par, yield to call (YTC) calculations
                                 reflect the early redemption date and consequent acceleration of the premium loss from
                                 the purchase price.
                                      A bond’s yield to call, similar to YTM, is the rate of return the bond provides from the
                                 purchase date to the call date and price. This calculation generates a lower return than
                                 does the YTM and should be considered by investors when evaluating a callable bond
                                 trading at a premium.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 304                                                                                                                  7/15/2016 2:03:01 PM
                              Session 5   Types and Characteristics of Fixed Income (Debt) Securities and Methods Used to Determine Their Value      305




                             !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                        The following example and chart will help you follow the discussion of the
                                                   various bond yields.

                                                        Current Yield, Yield to Maturity, and Yield to Call
                                                                                                     CY    YTM YTC

                                                        Premium


                                                              Par


                                                        Discount
                                                                                         Coupon


                                                        CY = Current Yield         YTM = Yield to Maturity             YTC = Yield to Call
                                                   1.   What is the current yield of a 6% bond trading for 80 ($800)?

                                                                    Current yield = annual income ÷ current market price

                                                        Find the solution as follows: $60 ÷ $800 = 7.5%. This bond is trading at a
                                                        discount. When prices fall, yields rise. The current yield is greater than the
                                                        nominal yield when bonds are trading at a discount.

                                                   2.   What is the current yield of a 6% bond trading for 120 ($1,200)?

                                                        Find the solution as follows: $60 ÷ $1,200 = 5%. This bond is trading at a
                                                        premium. The price is up so the yield is down. The current yield is less than the
                                                        nominal yield when bonds are trading at a premium.
                                                           It is critical to understand the inverse relationship between price and yield.
                                                        An effective way to visualize it is through the chart. When bonds are at par,
                                                        coupon and current yield are equal. When bonds are at a premium, the CY is
                                                        less than the coupon. When bonds are at a discount, the CY is greater than
                                                        the coupon.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 305                                                                                                                    7/15/2016 2:03:01 PM
     306        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                                       Current market value (CMV) of bond with 10 years to maturity



                                              $1,200
                                                                           6% C
                                                                                 oupo
                                                                                      n                     Coupon    6%
                                                                                          >
                                                                                                CY
                                                                                                            CY        5%

                                                                          Premium Bond




                                                                          6% Coupon       =     CY          Coupon    6%
                                              $1,000
                                                                                                            CY        6%

                                                                              Par Bond



                                                                                                CY
                                                                                          <
                                                                                    on
                                                                          6%   Coup                         Coupon    6%

                                              $800                                                          CY        7.5%

                                                                          Discount Bond



                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                          Know how to calculate the CY of a bond or a stock. Expect to see one ques-
                                                     tion on the calculation of CY.
                                                          The CY of common stock is calculated by dividing the current dividend by
                                                     the current price of the stock. For instance, a stock with a $2 dividend trading on
                                                     the market for $40 has a 5% CY ($2 ÷ $40 = 5%).




                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT                        Memorize the following chart for the exam:

                                                               Ranking Yields from Lowest to Highest
                                                                  Discounts               Premiums
                                                                  Nominal                 YTC
                                                                  CY                      YTM
                                                                  YTM                     CY
                                                                  YTC                     Nominal
                                                        Once you understand the yield ranking for discounts, the ranking for pre-
                                                     mium is easy—it is the exact opposite.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 306                                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:03:02 PM
                                     Session 5   Types and Characteristics of Fixed Income (Debt) Securities and Methods Used to Determine Their Value      307




                   5. 3. 2           BOND PRICING
                                         It is important to understand why the market prices of bonds fluctuate. Although there
                                     can be a number of factors, let’s look at the one most tested.


                        5. 3. 2. 1        Price/Yield Relationship
                                         There are many reasons interest rates rise and fall. The main concern for the exam,
                                     at this point, is the effect that interest rates have on the price fluctuations of bonds. As a
                                     general rule, keep in mind that interest rates and bond prices move counter to each other.
                                     That is, when interest rates are going up, the price of older bonds will be going down.
                                     When interest rates are going down, the price of older bonds will be going up.
                                         When most people hear this for the first time, they have difficulty understanding it.
                                     Simply stated, when newly issued bonds are paying a higher rate of interest than ones cur-
                                     rently in the market place, those older bonds are not as attractive. After all, if a new bond
                                     came out with a 6% coupon, your 4% or 5% bond would not be as valuable (this always
                                     assumes equal quality or rating). Conversely, if you were holding a bond with an 8% cou-
                                     pon, and newly issued bonds were only offering 6%, your bond is more valuable.



                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                               Although it is unlikely that you will have to do any bond pricing, you need to
                                                          remember that all bonds are quoted as a percentage of par. In the case of corpo-
                                                          rate and municipal bonds, they are fractions; in the case of government bonds,
                                                          they are “points” where each point = 1/32. That is, a corporate bond quoted at
                                                          101¼ = 101.25% of par, or $1,012.50. If that were a government bond, the
                                                          quote would be 101.8 (that is 1018/32).




                                Q
                        QUICK QUIZ 5.C                    1.   When a bond with a 6% coupon is selling for 90
                                                                 I. the current yield is approximately 6.67%
                                                                II. the bond is selling at a discount
                                                               III. the bondholder will receive two semi-annual interest payments of $27
                                                                    each
                                                               IV. the yield to maturity is slightly less than the current yield
                                                               A.   I and II
                                                               B.   I, II and IV
                                                               C.   II and III
                                                               D.   III and IV

                                                          2.   What would likely happen to the market value of existing bonds during an
                                                               inflationary period coupled with rising interest rates?
                                                               A.   The nominal yield of the bonds would decrease.
                                                               B.   The price of the bonds would increase.
                                                               C.   The price of the bonds would decrease.
                                                               D.   The price of the bonds would stay the same.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 307                                                                                                                           7/15/2016 2:03:02 PM
     308        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                                    3.   Which of the following statements about zero-coupon bonds are TRUE?
                                                           I. Zero-coupon bonds are sold at a deep discount from face value.
                                                          II. Zero-coupon bonds pay periodic interest payments.
                                                         III. The owner of a zero-coupon bond receives the face value only at
                                                              maturity.
                                                          A. I and II
                                                          B. I and III
                                                          C. II and III
                                                          D. I, II, and III

                                                    4.   A $1,000 bond with a nominal yield of 8% will pay how much interest each
                                                         year?
                                                         A.   $40.00
                                                         B.   $80.00
                                                         C.   $160.00
                                                         D.   There is no way to compute without knowing the current market price
                                                              of the bond

                                                    5.   If your clients want to set aside $40,000 for when their child starts college,
                                                         but do not want to endanger the principal, you should recommend
                                                         A.   corporate bonds with high rates of interest
                                                         B.   zero-coupon bonds backed by the U.S. Treasury
                                                         C.   general obligation municipal bonds for their tax benefits
                                                         D.   common stock

                                                    6.   A bond offered at par has a coupon rate
                                                         A.   less than its yield to maturity
                                                         B.   less than its current yield
                                                         C.   equal to its current yield
                                                         D.   greater than its yield to maturity

                                                    7.   Each of the following debt securities would be considered investment grade
                                                         EXCEPT
                                                         A.   corporate subordinated junior unsecured debentures with an A rating
                                                         B.   municipal water authority revenue bonds with a Baa rating
                                                         C.   corporate first lien mortgage bonds with a BB rating
                                                         D.   U.S. Treasury bills

                                                    8.   Which of the following statements about municipal bonds is NOT true?
                                                         A. The interest on municipal bonds is usually not subject to federal income
                                                            tax.
                                                         B. Municipal bonds are bonds issued by governmental units at levels other
                                                            than the federal.
                                                         C. Municipal bonds are generally considered riskier than corporate bonds.
                                                         D. Municipal bonds generally carry lower coupon rates than corporate
                                                            bonds of the same quality.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 308                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:03:02 PM
                                     Session 5   Types and Characteristics of Fixed Income (Debt) Securities and Methods Used to Determine Their Value      309




                   5. 3. 3           DURATION
                                         In the financial industry, the term duration is used to measure the sensitivity of a debt
                                     security when faced with changes in interest rates. The longer the duration, the greater
                                     the market price movement, and vice versa.
                                         It is a complicated computation, but, to try to simplify things, it is basically a measure-
                                     ment of the time it takes for the cash flow (interest payments) to repay the invested prin-
                                     cipal. That being the case, in general the higher the coupon rate, the shorter the duration,
                                     or the lower the coupon, the longer the duration.
                                         Just remember that there are two components to the computation: the interest rate
                                     and the maturity date. If the maturity dates are about the same (the difference between
                                     a 20-year maturity and a 22-year one is almost insignificant), then the bond paying the
                                     highest coupon rate will always have the shortest duration and that with the lowest cou-
                                     pon, the longest. However, if the coupon rates are approximately the same, then the bond
                                     that will mature first will have the shortest duration, and the one that will mature last will
                                     have the longest duration.



                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                               One way to keep things straight is to think about the zero-coupon bond.
                                                          With no periodic interest payments (that’s why it’s called zero-coupon), the
                                                          duration of a zero-coupon bond will always equal its length to maturity. In other
                                                          words, if we’re trying to compute how long it will take for the income payments
                                                          to return your principal, without any interest payments, you can’t expect to get
                                                          your money back until maturity date. If that is the case with a zero-coupon bond,
                                                          then as we find bonds paying interest, the more they’re paying every six months,
                                                          the quicker the payback.




                                  !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                               The general characteristics of duration follow.
                                                               ■■ The lower the coupon rate, the longer a bond’s duration; the higher the
                                                                  coupon rate, the shorter the duration.

                                                               ■■ The longer a bond’s maturity, the longer the bond’s duration.

                                                               ■■ For coupon bonds, duration is always less than the bond’s maturity.

                                                               ■■ Duration for a zero-coupon bond is always equal to its maturity.

                                                               ■■ The longer a bond’s duration, the more its value will change for a 1%
                                                                  change in interest rates; the shorter the duration, the less it will change.




                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                              The duration of a bond with coupon payments is always shorter than the
                                                          maturity of the bond. By the same token, the duration of a zero-coupon bond is
                                                          equal to its maturity.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 309                                                                                                                           7/15/2016 2:03:02 PM
     310        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         A five-year zero-coupon bond has a duration of five because it takes five
                                                    years to make the money back; the buyer gets a single payment (par) at maturity
                                                    five years after purchase.


                   5. 3. 3. 1         Convexity
                                     If you took geometry in school, you learned that curves could be convex (bulging to
                                 the outside) or concave (curving to the inside). It’s been almost 60 years, but I still remem-
                                 ber the key to the difference by the statement, “you can hide in a cave.” Now, what does
                                 that have to do with our discussion?
                                     Convexity is the measurement of the curve that results when plotting a bond’s price
                                 movements in response to changes in interest rates. It is a more accurate representation
                                 than duration of what will happen to a bond’s price as interest rates change, especially
                                 when the changes are great. Should you have a question about convexity on your exam,
                                 here’s what you have to know:
                                 ■■ Duration is a linear (straight-line) measurement, while convexity follows a curve.
                                 ■■ Comparing two bonds, the one with the higher convexity will show a greater price
                                     increase when yields fall and a smaller decrease when yields rise (that is a good thing).
                                 ■■ If we find two bonds with the same duration, the one with the higher convexity offers
                                     greater interest rate risk protection.



                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                        If you should be asked, “Which of the following is the most useful in deter-
                                                    mining the price volatility of a bond to a significant change in interest rates?”, the
                                                    correct choice is convexity.


                   5. 3. 3. 2         Discounted Cash Flow (DCF)
                                     One way of assessing the value of a fixed income security is by looking at the future
                                 expected free cash flow (the interest payments plus the eventual return of the principal)
                                 and discounting it to arrive at a present value. In its simplest iteration, this is nothing
                                 more than taking the all the money you are scheduled to receive over a given future period
                                 and adjusting that for the time value of money. The concept is used as well in some equity
                                 projections, such as the dividend discount and dividend growth models described previ-
                                 ously. Therefore, in order to compute the future value of the cash flow from a bond, you
                                 would have to know the:
                                 ■■ principal amount;
                                 ■■ coupon rate; and
                                 ■■ number of interest payments.



                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                       The higher the discounted cash flow (DCF), the more valuable the invest-
                                                    ment.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 310                                                                                                                   7/15/2016 2:03:02 PM
                                     Session 5   Types and Characteristics of Fixed Income (Debt) Securities and Methods Used to Determine Their Value      311




                               *
                              EXAMPLE                          There will be no computations regarding discounted cash flow, but there is
                                                          a common example that may help you understand the concept better. We all
                                                          wish we could be a winner of those huge Powerball or Mega Millions jackpots.
                                                          Winners have the choice of receiving a series of payments over a number of years
                                                          (about 29 currently), or taking the money in cash. If they take the cash, they’ll
                                                          receive around 70% of the announced total prize. Why is there a difference? The
                                                          cash represents the present value of those future payments and that is why you
                                                          get less by taking it now instead of over time. In fact, years ago, when interest
                                                          rates were higher than they are at the time of this printing, the lump sum pay-
                                                          ment was only about 60% of the “prize.” That is because the higher the market
                                                          interest rates, the higher the discount rate. This is the same concept used in
                                                          valuing a bond using DCF. When you buy a bond, you are expecting semi-annual
                                                          interest payments (cash flow) until the maturity date. When you compare those
                                                          interest rates to the current market rates (the discount rate in the equation), you
                                                          get an idea of a fair value of the bond. To better help you understand, take a
                                                          look at this question.
                                                               A client interested in fixed income is viewing different bonds with the same
                                                          rating and a coupon of 6%. Using the discounted cash flow method, which bond
                                                          should have the highest market value?
                                                               A. 5 year maturity when the discount rate is 4%
                                                               B. 5 year maturity when the discount rate is 8%
                                                               C. 10 year maturity when the discount rate is 4%
                                                               D. 10 year maturity when the discount rate is 8%

                                                          The correct answer is: C
                                                                Remember, the discount rate is just another way of stating the current inter-
                                                          est rate in the marketplace. If the discount rate is higher than the coupon rate,
                                                          the present value, the expected market price will be below par. Conversely, if the
                                                          discount rate is lower than the coupon rate, the present value will be above the
                                                          par value. Now, there is nothing new for you here – When the current interest
                                                          rate in the market place (that is what the discount rate represents) is less than the
                                                          coupon, the bond price is higher (as interest rates go down, bond prices go up).
                                                          And, if the current market interest rate is higher than the coupon rate, the bond’s
                                                          price will be lower (when interest rates increase, bond prices fall). That would
                                                          narrow the choices to the two 4% bonds. That is, a bond with a 6% coupon
                                                          should sell at premium when current interest rates are at 4% and when interest
                                                          rates are at 8%, the 6% bond should be selling at a discount. Then, as we’ve just
                                                          learned with duration, when interest rates change, the longer the time to matu-
                                                          rity, the greater the effect on the market price of a bond.




                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                               There will be a further discussion of present value in Unit 3 and, after that,
                                                          you might want to revisit this topic because it should make more sense to you at
                                                          that time.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 311                                                                                                                           7/15/2016 2:03:02 PM
       312         Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




             Q U I C K               Q U I Z           A N S W E R S

        Quick Quiz 5.A                                                       3. B.   A zero-coupon bond is a type of debt security
                                                                                     that pays no periodic interest payments.
           1. A.       Ginnie Maes pay interest on a monthly basis,                  Instead, they are sold at a deep discount from
                       not semiannually.                                             the maturity value and the investor receives
                                                                                     return of that value only when the bonds
        Quick Quiz 5.B                                                               mature.
           1. A.       Bondholders have contractual rights to the            4. B.   The nominal yield (or coupon rate) is the
                       assets of a business that must be honored on                  interest rate stated on the bond and is the
                       insolvency before claims of stockholders or                   annual rate the issuer promises to pay on the
                       directors.                                                    bond until the bond matures. A $1,000 bond
                                                                                     with an 8% nominal yield will pay $80 per
           2. C.       A bond represents a legal obligation to
                                                                                     year in interest. In all cases on the exam, the
                       repay principal and interest by the company.
                                                                                     interest will be paid in two equal semi-annual
                       Common stock carries no such obligation.
                                                                                     installments, in this case, $40 each.
                       SIPC insures broker-dealer client accounts,
                       not bonds.                                            5. B.   Treasury STRIPS are guaranteed by the U.S.
                                                                                     government so there is no chance of default.
        Quick Quiz 5.C
                                                                                     They are zero-coupon bonds and offer no
           1. A.       The current yield on a bond is the coupon                     current income, which is appropriate for
                       divided by the current market price. In this                  a client who wants 100% return paid at a
                       example, 6 divided by 90. The price of 90                     future date for college expenses.
                       represents 90% of par, a discount of $100.
                                                                             6. C.   When a bond is selling at par, its coupon
                       Interest payments are based on the $1,000
                                                                                     or nominal rate, current yield, and yield to
                       face amount, so this investor would receive
                                                                                     maturity are all the same.
                       two semiannual payments of $30 each. On a
                       discounted bond, the yield to maturity will           7. C.   Investment grade is defined as BBB (S&P)
                       always be higher than the current yield.                      or Baa (Moody’s) and higher. When giving
                                                                                     the rating collateral, or lack of same, it taken
           2. C.       The market price of outstanding bonds falls
                                                                                     into consideration. All you do is look at the
                       when interest rates rise because bond prices
                                                                                     letters.
                       have an inverse relationship with interest
                       rates. That is, when an investor can get a            8. C.   Municipal bonds are generally considered
                       higher nominal (coupon) yield on a new                        second only to U.S. Treasury instruments in
                       bond, the old one paying a lower rate of                      relative safety. Because of their tax-free yield,
                       interest just isn’t worth as much so the price                their coupon rates are lower than corporate
                       goes down. Remember, the nominal yield                        bonds of the same quality.
                       is the coupon rate stated on the face of the
                       bond and that never changes.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 312                                                                                                               7/15/2016 2:03:02 PM
                             6
                             Types and Characteristics
                             of Cash and Cash
                             Equivalents


                             A
                                      sset allocation programs (covered later in the course) contain three
                                      primary asset classes, equity securities (stock) covered in Session 4,
                                      fixed income securities (bonds) covered in Session 5, and cash
                             (“money in the bank” as well as investments that have cash-like liquidity).
                             Cash equivalents, such as commercial paper and Treasury bills, are the pri-
                             mary source of short-term financing for corporations and governments.
                                  The Series 66 exam will include approximately 1 question on the mate-
                             rial presented in this session. ■




                                                                                                            313




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 313                                                                            7/15/2016 2:03:02 PM
            OBJECTIVES


                                 When you have completed this session, you should be able to:

                             ■■ identify the special characteristics of money market instruments;

                             ■■ explain the risks and benefits of adding cash equivalents to a client’s portfolio;

                             ■■ define the acronym LIBOR; and

                             ■■ contrast DDAs and CDs.




      314




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 314                                                                                           7/15/2016 2:03:03 PM
                                                                        Session 6   Types and Characteristics of Cash and Cash Equivalents      315




                   6. 1       CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
                                     As we will learn when discussing asset allocation programs later in this course, one
                                 important asset is “cash.” Now, we don’t mean greenbacks buried in the mattress or the
                                 backyard; we’re referring to places to keep funds that are in the bank or in securities that
                                 are considered to be the same as cash. Although the Financial Accounting Standards
                                 Board (FASB) defines cash equivalents as highly liquid securities with maturities of less
                                 than three months, when it comes to cash equivalents, the exam will include money mar-
                                 ket instruments with a maturity of up to one year.


                   6. 1. 1       MONEY MARKET
                                      The money market may be defined as the market for buying and selling short-term
                                 loanable funds in the form of securities and loans. It is called the money market because
                                 that is what is traded there, money not cash. The buyer of a money market instrument is
                                 the lender of the money; the seller of a money market instrument is the entity borrowing
                                 the money.
                                      Although there are many different kinds of money market instruments, there are sev-
                                 eral common factors. For example, they all have a matu­rity date of one year or less. In
                                 fact, the majority of money market instruments mature in less than six months. Another
                                 factor that many (but not all) money market instruments share is that they are issued at
                                 a discount; they do not pay interest because debt securities generally pay interest semi­
                                 annually and since most money market instruments have a maturity of six months or less,
                                 the administrative costs of paying out interest would be very high. Therefore, the solution
                                 is to issue the security at a dis­count with the investor being paid back par at maturity, that
                                 difference being what he is paid for the use of his money. Money market instruments are
                                 safe. Although some are not quite as safe as others (e.g., commercial paper is not as safe as
                                 a Treasury bill), they are all considered to be low-risk securities.


                        6. 1. 1. 1   Treasury Securities
                                     Treasury bills are the bellwether of the money market. Because there is so much
                                 Treasury debt outstanding, the level of activity in Treasury bills and other short-term gov-
                                 ernment issues is by far the highest and most carefully watched. The huge market activity
                                 in Treasuries keeps the spreads very low, making it easy for the investor to get in and out
                                 at a reasonable cost. The yields on these Treasuries are normally the lowest in the money
                                 market.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 315                                                                                                               7/15/2016 2:03:03 PM
     316        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                   6. 1. 1. 2          Negotiable Certificates of Deposit
                                     These CDs are unsecured time deposits (no asset of the bank is pledged as collateral),
                                 and the money is being loaned to the bank for a specified period of time. A negotiable
                                 CD allows the initial investor, or any subsequent owner of the CD, to sell the CD in the
                                 open market prior to maturity date. The bank that issues the CD redeems the CD at face
                                 value plus interest on maturity date. CDs are the only money market instrument that pays
                                 periodic interest, usually semi-annually. To be considered a negotiable CD, such CDs must
                                 have a face value of $100,000 or more, with $1 million and more being most common.



                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                       In the industry (and sometimes on the exam), these are referred to as Jumbo
                                                    CDs.




                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                         ■■ Negotiable CDs do not have a prepayment penalty

                                                         ■■ FDIC insurance applies up to $250,000

                                                         ■■ Jumbo CDs pay interest semi-annually


                   6. 1. 1. 3         Commercial Paper
                                     Another money market instrument is commercial paper. This is short-term unsecured
                                 paper issued by corporations (especially finance companies), primarily to raise working
                                 capital. In other words, for current rather than long-term needs. As you saw when we cov-
                                 ered securities exemptions in sessions 1 and 2, commercial paper is exempt from registra-
                                 tion on both the federal and state level as long as the maximum maturity is nine months.



                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                         Negotiable CDs are interest bearing and issued at face. Commercial paper is
                                                    generally issued at a discount—instead of receiving interest, the investor receives
                                                    the face amount at maturity. Finally, yields on commercial paper are usually nego-
                                                    tiated between the buyer and issuer.


                   6. 1. 1. 4         London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR)
                                     LIBOR, sometimes referred to as the ICE LIBOR, is derived from a survey of banks
                                 conducted each day in London, UK, on behalf of the Intercontinental Exchange—ICE.
                                 Lenders are asked how much it would cost them to borrow from each other for 15 different
                                 periods, from overnight to one year, in currencies including dollars, euros, yen, and Swiss
                                 francs. Rates are based on actual transactions for which records are kept. After a set num-
                                 ber of quotes are excluded, those remaining are averaged and published for each currency
                                 by the ICE before noon.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 316                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:03:03 PM
                                                                            Session 6   Types and Characteristics of Cash and Cash Equivalents      317




                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                         The exam may expect you to know that the LIBOR is the world’s most
                                                     widely used benchmark for short-term interest rates.

                                        In summation, why would you place money market securities in a client’s portfolio?
                                     ■■ Highly liquid
                                     ■■ Very safe
                                     ■■ The best place to store money that will be needed soon

                                        In doing so, the client would be incurring the following risks:
                                     ■■ Because of their many advantages, the rate of return is quite low so these are not suit-
                                        able for long-term investors
                                     ■■ Fluctuating income—due to short-term maturities, principal is potentially being rein-
                                        vested at a different rate each time the instrument matures




                                Q
                        QUICK QUIZ 6.A               1.   A company realizes money from the sale of surplus equipment. It would like
                                                          to invest this money but will need it in 4–6 months and must take that into
                                                          consideration when selecting an investment. You would recommend
                                                          A.   preferred stock
                                                          B.   Treasury bills
                                                          C.   AAA rated bonds with long-term maturities
                                                          D.   common stock

                                                     2.   Money market instruments are
                                                          A.   short-term equity
                                                          B.   intermediate debt
                                                          C.   short-term debt
                                                          D.   long-term debt

                                                     Quick Quiz answers can be found at the end of the session.



                   6. 1. 2           INSURED DEPOSITS
                                         As mentioned, when referring to cash as part of one’s asset allocation, in addition to
                                     cash equivalents in the form of money market instruments, one might keep the proverbial
                                     “cash in the bank.” The term insured will frequently be used on the exam because, at least
                                     up to the legal limits, the funds involved are insured by the FDIC. There are several ways
                                     this may be done.


                        6. 1. 2. 1       Demand Deposits
                                         This is legal term for a checking account. This is the favorite repository for funds that
                                     will be needed in the very near term.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 317                                                                                                                   7/15/2016 2:03:03 PM
     318        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                          What we normally refer to as “cash in the bank” is, in banking terms, known
                                                    as a demand deposit. To bankers, the term demand deposit refers to a type
                                                    of account (usually just shown by the initials DDA) held at banks and financial
                                                    institutions that may be withdrawn at any time by the customer. Historically, the
                                                    term referred only to checking accounts, but it now commonly includes savings
                                                    accounts and money market accounts (not money market mutual funds—those
                                                    are not banking products).
                                                         When analyzing a client’s financial profile, it should be understood that these
                                                    are considered short-term funds (readily available) and provide safe, but low
                                                    returns.


                   6. 1. 2. 2         Certificates of Deposits (CDs)
                                     In the money market segment, we introduced you to the Jumbo (negotiable) CD.
                                 Here, we’re referring to the non-negotiable (you can’t sell it to anyone, you can only
                                 redeem it at the bank) certificate of deposit available at your local branch (or online).
                                 These are typically available with a minimum deposit of as little as $500 and maturities of
                                 anywhere from 3 months to 5 years. In most cases, withdrawal prior to the maturity date
                                 will result in a penalty. Here are some key facts to remember for the exam:
                                 ■■ If capital preservation is the goal with no risk, the answer is an insured bank CD.
                                 ■■ Insured bank CDs have no interest rate risk (they don’t fluctuate in value as interest
                                     rates change).
                                 ■■ Even with the potential early withdrawal penalty, these are considered liquid assets,
                                     but certainly not as liquid as a DDA.




                             Q
                   QUICK QUIZ 6.B                   1.   One would expect to have checkbook access to a
                                                         A.   CMO
                                                         B.   DDA
                                                         C.   GNMA
                                                         D.   LIBOR




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 318                                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:03:03 PM
                                                                        Session 6   Types and Characteristics of Cash and Cash Equivalents       319




                        Q U I C K         Q U I Z         A N S W E R S

                   Quick Quiz 6.A                                             Quick Quiz 6.B

                      1. B.   The appropriate investment for the client is          1. B.    DDA stands for demand deposit account,
                              a money market instrument and nothing is                       most often a checking account at a bank.
                              safer than a T-bill.

                      2. C.   Money market instruments are high-quality
                              debt securities with maturities that do not
                              exceed 1 year.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 319                                                                                                                   7/15/2016 2:03:03 PM
Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 320   7/15/2016 2:03:03 PM
                             7
                             Pooled Investments


                             I
                                 n addition to equity and debt, other investments related to stocks and
                                 bonds are available to investors. Such investment products include
                                 packaged products such as mutual funds, exchange traded funds (ETFs),
                             variable contracts of insurance companies (variable annuities and variable
                             life insurance), and real estate investment trusts (REITs). These packaged
                             products are generally referred to as pooled investments because they repre-
                             sent a pool of funds contributed by a number of investors.
                                  The Series 66 exam will include approximately 5 questions on the
                             material presented in this session. ■




                                                                                                         321




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 321                                                                         7/15/2016 2:03:04 PM
            OBJECTIVES


                                 When you have completed this session, you should be able to:

                             ■■ compare and contrast the difference between the method of capitalization of open-end
                                investment companies and closed-end investment companies;

                             ■■ explain the difference in pricing between open-end and closed end investment companies;

                             ■■ name the distinguishing characteristics of exchange-traded funds (ETFs);

                             ■■ identify the unique features of investment company securities and REITs ; and

                             ■■ explain the use and suitability of these securities in client portfolios.




      322




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 322                                                                                      7/15/2016 2:03:04 PM
                                                                                                               Session 7   Pooled Investments      323




                   7. 1          INVESTMENT COMPANY SECURITIES
                                         In our discussion of the Investment Company Act of 1940 in Session 1, we covered
                                     the legal description of investment companies. This discussion will focus on the key fea-
                                     tures of open-end and closed-end management investment companies.
                                         Investment companies raise capital by selling shares to the public. Investment com-
                                     panies must abide by similar registration and prospectus requirements imposed by the
                                     Securities Act of 1933 on every other issuer.
                                         Investment companies are also subject to regulations regarding how their shares are
                                     sold to the public. The Investment Company Act of 1940 provides for Securities and
                                     Exchange Commission (SEC) regulation of investment companies and their activities.



                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                        Because of the way many investors combine their investment capital, invest-
                                                     ment companies are frequently referred to as “pooled investment vehicles.”



                   7. 1. 1           TYPES OF INVESTMENT COMPANIES
                                          You should remember from Session 1 that the Investment Company Act of 1940 clas-
                                     sifies investment companies into three broad types: face-amount certificate (FAC) com-
                                     panies, unit investment trusts (UITs), and management investment companies. However,
                                     as previously stated, the exam will focus on management companies.


                        7. 1. 1. 1       Management Investment Companies
                                          The most familiar type of investment company is the management investment com-
                                     pany, which actively manages a securities portfolio to achieve a stated investment objec-
                                     tive. A management investment company is either closed-end or open-end. Initially, both
                                     closed- and open-end companies sell shares to the public; the difference between them
                                     lies in the type of securities they sell and how investors buy and sell their shares—in the
                                     primary or secondary market.



                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                          Open-end and closed-end investment companies have far more similarities
                                                     than differences. One of these is the term, net asset value per share, generally
                                                     shown as NAV. This value is the result of the fund valuing all of its assets (the
                                                     largest of which is the portfolio), subtracting its liabilities, and then dividing that
                                                     by the number of shares outstanding. This NAV per share computation is criti-
                                                     cal to the purchase and sale of open-end companies, and, as we’ll see, has little
                                                     relationship to the buying and selling price of closed-end funds.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 323                                                                                                                  7/15/2016 2:03:05 PM
     324        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                 7. 1. 1. 1. 1 Closed-End Investment Companies
                                     To raise capital, a closed-end investment company conducts a common stock offering.
                                 For the initial offering, the company registers a fixed number of shares with the SEC and
                                 offers them to the public for a limited time through an underwriting group. The fund’s
                                 capitalization is fixed unless an additional public offering is made. Closed-end investment
                                 companies can also issue bonds and preferred stock.
                                     Closed-end investment companies are commonly known as publicly traded funds.
                                 After the stock is distributed, anyone can buy or sell shares in the secondary market, either
                                 on an exchange or over the counter (OTC). Supply and demand determine the bid price
                                 (price at which an investor can sell) and the ask price (price at which an investor can
                                 buy). Closed-end fund shares usually trade at a premium or discount to the shares’ net asset
                                 value (NAV).



                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT

                                                    1.
                                                         Please remember the following points:

                                                         Closed-end investment companies trade based upon supply and demand for
                                                         their shares. As a result, their buying and selling price does not have a direct
                                                         relationship to the NAV of the shares.

                                                    2.   Country funds are funds that concentrate their investments in the securities
                                                         of companies domiciled in foreign countries. Well-known examples are the
                                                         Korea Fund, the New Germany Fund, and the Mexico Fund. These country
                                                         funds are generally organized as closed-end (rather than open-end) compa-
                                                         nies because it is often difficult to liquidate the foreign securities to get their
                                                         value into the United States.


                                 7. 1. 1. 1. 2 Open-End Investment Companies
                                      An open-end investment company, or mutual fund, does not specify the exact num-
                                 ber of shares it intends to issue. It registers an open offering with the SEC. The open-end
                                 investment company can raise an unlimited amount of investment capital by continuously
                                 issuing new shares. Any person who wants to invest in the company buys shares directly
                                 from the company or its underwriters (or a broker-dealer with a selling agreement) at the
                                 public offering price (POP).Unlike closed-end companies, open-end companies only issue
                                 common stock.
                                      A mutual fund’s POP is the NAV per share plus any applicable sales charges. A mutual
                                 fund’s NAV is calculated daily by deducting the fund’s liabilities from its total assets. NAV
                                 per share is calculated by dividing the fund’s NAV by the number of shares outstanding.
                                      An open-end investment company sells redeemable securities. When an investor
                                 sells shares, the company redeems them at their NAV. For each share an investor redeems,
                                 the company sends the investor money for the investor’s proportionate share of the com-
                                 pany’s net assets. Therefore, a mutual fund’s capital shrinks when investors redeem shares.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 324                                                                                                                     7/15/2016 2:03:05 PM
                                                                                                     Session 7   Pooled Investments      325




                                                                 Open-End                            Closed-End
                                    Capitalization   Unlimited; continuous offering      Fixed; single offering of shares
                                                     of shares
                                    Issues           Common stock only; no debt          May issue: common stock,
                                                     securities; permitted to borrow     preferred stock, debt securities
                                    Shares           Full or fractional                  Full only
                                    Offering and     Sold and redeemed by fund           Initial primary offering
                                    trading          only                                Secondary trading OTC or on an
                                                     Continuous primary offering         exchange
                                                     Must redeem shares                  Does not redeem shares
                                    Pricing          NAV + sales charge                  Current market value +
                                                     Selling price determined by         commission
                                                     formula in the prospectus; the      Price determined by supply and
                                                     price can never be below the        demand so it can be above,
                                                     NAV                                 below, or the same as the NAV
                                    Shareholder      Dividends (when declared),          Dividends (when declared),
                                    rights           voting                              voting, preemptive




                             !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                    We said earlier that closed-end funds also compute NAV; however, because
                                               their price is determined by supply and demand and, as a consequence, may be
                                               more than, the same as, or less than the NAV, it does not have the relevance that
                                               it does with open-end funds. Therefore, instead of daily computation, it is gener-
                                               ally only done once per week.


                              7. 1. 1. 1. 3 Characteristics of Mutual Funds
                                  A mutual fund is a pool of investors’ money invested in various securities determined
                              by the fund’s objective. Open-end investment management companies (mutual funds)
                              have several unique characteristics.
                                  The Investment Company Act of 1940 requires that an open-end investment com-
                              pany stand ready to redeem shares at the next computed NAV per share. Payment must
                              be made within seven days of the redemption request. Although there may be a redemp-
                              tion charge, and, of course, the value of the shares may be less than their cost, liquidity is
                              assured.
                                  That redemption requirement can have negative consequences, as we’ll see in the
                              next paragraph.

                              7. 1. 1. 1. 4    Net Redemptions
                                   It can sometimes happen, particularly during declining markets, that there is an excess
                              of shareholder redemptions over new share purchases. This is known as “net redemptions.”
                              When that occurs, the portfolio manager is put in the difficult position of having to decide
                              which assets to liquidate when prices are falling. A fund suffering with net redemptions is
                              probably not going to deliver your clients the performance they are seeking.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 325                                                                                                        7/15/2016 2:03:05 PM
     326        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                             Q
                  QUICK QUIZ 7.A                    Choose A for an open-end company or B for a closed-end company.

                                                    ____    1. Trades in the secondary market

                                                    ____    2. Issues a fixed number of shares

                                                    ____    3. Does not trade in the secondary market; shares must be redeemed

                                                    ____    4. Price is set by supply and demand

                                                    ____    5. Usually called mutual funds

                                                    Quick Quiz answers can be found at the end of the session.



             7. 1. 2             SALES CHARGES
                                     Purchasing shares of an investment company may involve acquisition costs. What
                                 they are depends on which type of management company is being purchased.


                   7. 1. 2. 1         Closed-End Funds
                                     Closed-end funds do not carry sales charges. An investor pays a brokerage commission
                                 in an agency transaction or pays a markup or markdown in a principal transaction.


                   7. 1. 2. 2         Open-End Funds
                                     All sales commissions are paid from the sales charges collected. Sales charges include
                                 commissions for the managing underwriter, dealers, brokers, and registered representa-
                                 tives, as well as all expenses incurred in communications with the public.
                                     Mutual fund distributors use three different methods to collect the fees for the sale of
                                 shares:
                                 ■■ Front-end loads (difference between POP and net NAV)
                                 ■■ Back-end loads (contingent deferred sales loads)
                                 ■■ 12b-1 fees (asset-based fees, technically not a sales charge)

                                     Front-End Loads. Front-end sales loads are reflected in a fund’s public offering price.
                                 The charges are added to the NAV at the time an investor buys shares. They are fre-
                                 quently referred to as Class A shares and have lower operating expense ratios than other
                                 classes.

                                      Back-End Loads. A back-end sales load, also called a contingent deferred sales charge
                                 or load (CDSC), is charged at the time an investor redeems mutual fund shares. The sales
                                 load, a declining percentage charge that is reduced annually (for instance, 8% the first
                                 year, 7% the second, 6% the third, and so forth), is applied to the proceeds of any shares
                                 sold in that year. The back-end load is usually structured so that it drops to zero after
                                 six to eight years at which time they are converted to Class A shares with their lower
                                 operating expense ratios. They are frequently referred to as Class B shares.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 326                                                                                                       7/15/2016 2:03:05 PM
                                                                                                    Session 7   Pooled Investments      327




                                     12b-1 Asset-Based Fees. Mutual funds cannot act as distributors for their own
                                 fund shares except under Section 12b-1 of the Investment Company Act of 1940. This
                                 provision permits a mutual fund to collect a fee for promotion or sales-related activities
                                 in connection with the distribution of its shares. The fee is determined as a flat dollar
                                 amount or as a percentage of the fund’s average total NAV during the year. The fee is
                                 disclosed in the fund’s prospectus.
                                     The percentage of net assets charged must be reasonable (typically .5% of net assets—
                                 this annual fee cannot exceed .75% of net assets), and the fee must reflect the anticipated
                                 level of distribution services. If the fee exceeds .25%, the fund cannot use the term no-load.
                                     The payments represent fees that would have been paid to an underwriter had sales
                                 charges been negotiated for sales, promotion, and related activities.


                        7. 1. 2. 3   Classes of Fund Shares
                                     Mutual funds may offer several classes of shares to allow investors to select how they
                                 pay the sales charges. The following is a typical method by which firms may classify fund
                                 shares by fee type: Class A, B, and C shares.
                                 ■■ Class A shares (front-end load): investors pay the charge at the time of purchase.
                                 ■■ Class B shares (back-end load): declines over time so investors pay the charge at
                                     redemption.
                                 ■■ Class C shares (level load): no sales charge to purchase, generally a 1% CDSC for one
                                     year, with a continuous 12b-1 charge.

                                     The class of shares determines the type of sales charge as well as operating expenses
                                 with Class A having lower costs (usually a low or no 12b-1 fee) than Class B and Class
                                 C shares. All other rights associated with mutual fund ownership remain the same across
                                 each class.


                        7. 1. 2. 4   Reductions in Sales Charges
                                     The maximum permitted sales charge is reduced if an investment company does not
                                 offer certain features. To qualify for the maximum 8.5% sales charge, the investment com-
                                 pany must offer both of the following:
                                 ■■ Breakpoints—a scale of declining sales charges based on the amount invested
                                 ■■ Rights of accumulation—permits an investor to aggregate shares owned in related
                                     accounts in some or all funds in the fund family to reach a breakpoint discount


                        7. 1. 2. 5   Breakpoints
                                     The schedule of discounts a mutual fund offers is called the fund’s breakpoints.
                                 Breakpoints are available to any person. For a breakpoint qualification, the term person
                                 includes married couples, parents and their minor children, and corporations. Investment
                                 clubs or associations formed for the purpose of investing do not qualify for breakpoints.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 327                                                                                                       7/15/2016 2:03:05 PM
     328        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                                                     Sample Breakpoint Schedule
                                                                    Purchase Amount     Sales Charge
                                                                $0–$24,999                 6.5%
                                                                $25,000–$49,999            5.5%
                                                                $50,000–$99,999             5%
                                                                $100,000–$249,999           3%
                                                                $250,000–$499,999           2%
                                                                $500,000–$999,999           1%
                                                                $1,000,000 +                0%


                                     An investor can qualify for breakpoints in several ways. A large, lump-sum investment
                                 is one method. Mutual funds offer additional incentives for an investor to continue to
                                 invest and qualify for breakpoints through a letter of intent .

                                 7. 1. 2. 5. 1 Breakpoint Sales

                                      Both state and federal regulators prohibit registered personnel from making higher
                                 commissions by selling investment company shares in a dollar amount just below the point
                                 at which the sales charge is reduced. This is known as a breakpoint sale and this practice
                                 is considered contrary to just and equitable principles of trade.
                                      Although not specifically listed as a violation, regulators scrutinize large purchases of
                                 Class B shares. A purchase large enough to reach a significant Class A share breakpoint
                                 results in a low enough sales charge that, in just a few years, the lower operating expenses
                                 of the Class A shares will more than make up the difference in front-end cost. In practice,
                                 very few firms will accept an order for Class B shares in excess of $100,000, particularly if
                                 the investor intends to maintain the position for a number of years.


             7. 1. 3             INVESTMENT OBJECTIVES
                                     Once a mutual fund defines its objective, its portfolio is invested to match it. The
                                 objective must be clearly stated in the mutual fund’s prospectus and can be changed only
                                 by a majority vote of the fund’s outstanding shares.


                   7. 1. 3. 1         Stock Funds
                                     Common stocks normally provide the growth component of any mutual fund that has
                                 growth as a primary objective. Preferred, utility, and large-cap stocks are typically used to
                                 provide the income component of any stock mutual fund that has income as a primary
                                 objective.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 328                                                                                                        7/15/2016 2:03:05 PM
                                                                                                            Session 7   Pooled Investments      329




                        7. 1. 3. 2       Bond Funds
                                         Bond funds have income as their primary investment objective. Some funds invest
                                     solely in investment-grade corporate bonds. Others, for enhanced safety, invest only in
                                     government issues. Others seek capital appreciation by investing in lower-rated issues that
                                     may be upgraded in the future.

                                         Tax-Free (Tax-Exempt) Bond Funds. Tax-exempt funds invest in municipal bonds
                                     or notes that produce income exempt from federal income tax. Tax-free funds can invest
                                     in municipal bonds and tax-exempt money market instruments. Please note that any
                                     capital gains distributions from the fund are taxable just as with any other fund.

                                         U.S. Government and Agency Securities Funds. U.S. government funds purchase
                                     securities issued by the U.S. Treasury or an agency of the U.S. government, such as Gin-
                                     nie Mae. Investors in these funds seek current income and maximum safety.

                                         Foreign Bond Funds. These funds invest in foreign sovereign and/or corporate debt
                                     issues. Although they carry the same general risks as investing directly into foreign debt,
                                     these tend to be reduced because of the professional management and diversification
                                     offered by fund investing.

                        7. 1. 3. 3       Asset Allocation Funds
                                         Asset allocation funds split investments between stocks for growth, bonds for income,
                                     and money market instruments (or cash) for stability. The fund adviser switches the per-
                                     centage of holdings in each asset category according to the performance, or expected per-
                                     formance, of that group. We will have more to say about asset allocation in Unit 4.




                               *
                              EXAMPLE                    A fund may have 60% of its investments in stock, 20% in bonds, and the
                                                     remaining 20% in cash. If the stock market is expected to do well, the adviser
                                                     may switch from cash and bonds into stock. The result may be a portfolio of
                                                     80% in stock, 10% in bonds, and 10% in cash. Conversely, if the stock market is
                                                     expected to decline, the fund may invest heavily in cash and sell stocks.




                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                          Remember our statement from a few pages ago: Unlike closed-end compa-
                                                     nies, open-end companies only issue common stock? How does that fit into our
                                                     discussion of these funds that invest solely in bonds, or allocate their assets to
                                                     various types of securities? Remember, open-end investment companies (mutual
                                                     funds) raise capital to invest by selling shares of their stock – investors purchase
                                                     shares of common stock in the fund; the fund is the issuer of that stock. Then,
                                                     the investment company uses the capital raised from the sale of those shares to
                                                     invest in whatever the portfolio managers believe will help them meet the fund’s
                                                     objectives. Obviously, in a bond fund, those investments will be in bonds, but the
                                                     investors are not buying the bonds; the investment company is with the money
                                                     raised from the sale of its shares.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 329                                                                                                               7/15/2016 2:03:05 PM
     330        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                   7. 1. 3. 4         Money Market Funds
                                     Money market funds are no-load, open-end investment companies (mutual funds)
                                 that serve as temporary holding accounts for investors’ money. As the name implies, the
                                 portfolio of a money market fund consists of money market securities. The term no-load
                                 means that investors pay no sales or liquidation fees. Money market mutual funds are most
                                 suitable for investors whose financial goals require liquidity above all.
                                     In general, money market mutual funds offer check-writing privileges making for
                                 extraordinary liquidity.
                                     The NAV of money market funds is generally fixed at $1 per share. Although this
                                 price is not guaranteed, a fund is managed in order not to “break the buck” regardless of
                                 market changes. Thus, the price of money market shares does not fluctuate in response to
                                 changing interest rates.



                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                        On July 23, 2014, the Securities and Exchange Commission adopted amend-
                                                    ments to the rules that govern money market mutual funds. Because there is a
                                                    two-year transition period before the rules finally take effect, it is unlikely that
                                                    any of the changes will appear on your exam. Furthermore, the nature of the
                                                    changes is such that it is possible that questions about them will not ever appear
                                                    on this test. However, to be safe, here are the most important facts:
                                                         ■■ The new rules require a floating net asset value (NAV) for Institutional
                                                            prime money market funds, which allows the daily share prices of these
                                                            funds to fluctuate along with changes in the market-based value of fund
                                                            assets

                                                         ■■ With a floating NAV, Institutional prime money market funds (including
                                                            institutional municipal money market funds) are required to value their
                                                            portfolio securities using market-based factors and sell and redeem
                                                            shares based on a floating NAV. These funds no longer will be allowed
                                                            to use the special pricing and valuation conventions that currently permit
                                                            them to maintain a constant share price of $1.00. With liquidity fees and
                                                            redemption gates, money market fund boards have the ability to impose
                                                            fees and gates during periods of stress.

                                                         ■■ Two new categories of funds were designated. A Government money
                                                            market fund means a money market fund that invests 99.5% or more
                                                            of its total assets in cash, U.S. government securities, and/or repurchase
                                                            agreements that are collateralized fully and a Retail money market fund
                                                            means a money market fund that has policies and procedures reasonably
                                                            designed to limit all beneficial owners of the fund to natural persons.

                                                         ■■ Government and Retail money market funds may continue to use the
                                                            previous methods of computing NAV and sell and redeem their shares at
                                                            a stable price of $1.00.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 330                                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:03:05 PM
                                                                                                        Session 7   Pooled Investments      331




                                                      For funds with a floating NAV, Rule 482 (the tombstone ad rule) requires the
                                                 following statement:

                                                 You could lose money by investing in the fund. Because the share price of the
                                                 fund will fluctuate, when you sell your shares they may be worth more or less than
                                                 what you originally paid for them. The fund may impose a fee upon sale of your
                                                 shares or may temporarily suspend your ability to sell shares if the fund’s liquidity
                                                 falls below required minimums because of market conditions or other factors. An
                                                 investment in the fund is not insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insur-
                                                 ance Corporation or any other government agency. The fund’s sponsor has no
                                                 legal obligation to provide financial support to the fund, and you should not expect
                                                 that the sponsor will provide financial support to the fund at any time.




                               !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                      Be aware that an investment in a money market fund is not insured or guar-
                                                 anteed by the FDIC or any other government agency. Although a money market
                                                 fund seeks to preserve the value of the investment at $1.00 per share, it is pos-
                                                 sible to lose money by investing in a money market fund.


                        7. 1. 3. 5   Target Date Funds
                                      Although we have yet to hear from students that these funds have been mentioned on
                                 the exam, due to their growing popularity, it is only a matter of time before they appear.
                                      What is a target date fund? The Investment Company Institute, the trade organiza-
                                 tion for investment companies, describes them this way: “Target date funds, which are also
                                 called lifecycle funds, are designed to offer a convenient way to invest for a person expect-
                                 ing to retire around a particular date. A target date fund pursues a long-term investment
                                 strategy, using a mix of asset classes (or asset allocation) that the fund provider adjusts to
                                 become more conservative over time. Fund providers typically offer target date funds with
                                 target dates spaced at 5- or 10-year intervals to meet the needs of retirement investors
                                 across a wide range of ages. For example, an individual anticipating retirement in 2039
                                 could invest in a 2040 fund, while one expecting to retire in 2017 might choose between
                                 a 2015 fund, a 2020 fund, or a combination of the two.”
                                      For those familiar with target date funds, although primarily used by investors for
                                 retirement purposes, the fund doesn’t state its objectives that way. Here is an example of
                                 how one target date fund states its objective in its prospectus: “Depending on the prox-
                                 imity to its target date, the fund will seek to achieve the following objectives to varying
                                 degrees: growth, income and conservation of capital. The fund will increasingly emphasize
                                 income and conservation of capital by investing a greater portion of its assets in bond,
                                 equity income and balanced funds as it approaches and passes its target date. In this way,
                                 the fund seeks to balance total return and stability over time.”


                   7. 1. 4       COMPARING MUTUAL FUNDS
                                     Investors should select funds that match their personal and financial objectives. When
                                 comparing funds with similar objectives, the investor should review information regarding
                                 funds’:
                                 ■■ costs,




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 331                                                                                                           7/15/2016 2:03:05 PM
     332        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                 ■■ taxation,
                                 ■■ services offered,
                                 ■■ comparisons to benchmarks, and
                                 ■■ tenure of the fund manager.

                                     The suitability of a mutual fund must also be considered once the above information
                                 has been determined.


                   7. 1. 4. 1         Costs
                                     Sales loads, management fees, and operating expenses reduce an investor’s returns
                                 because they diminish the amount of money invested in a fund. Historically, mutual funds
                                 have charged front-end loads of up to 8.5% of the money invested (public offering price).
                                 This percentage serves as a sales commission to a sales force and other expenses associated
                                 with selling the shares.
                                     Many low-load funds charge between 2% and 5%. Additionally, funds may charge a
                                 back-end load when funds are withdrawn. Some funds charge ongoing fees under section
                                 12b-1 of the Investment Company Act of 1940. These funds deduct annual fees to pay for
                                 marketing and distribution costs.
                                     A fund’s expense ratio expresses the management fees and operating expenses as a per-
                                 centage of the fund’s net assets. All mutual funds, load and no-load, have expense ratios.
                                     The expense ratio is calculated by dividing annual operating expenses by the average
                                 dollar value of the fund’s assets under management.
                                     The sales charge is not considered an expense when calculating a fund’s expense ratio.




                             *
                         EXAMPLE                        An expense ratio of 1.72% means that the fund spends $1.72 per year for
                                                    every $100 of invested assets.

                                      Typically, more aggressive funds have higher expense ratios.




                             *
                         EXAMPLE




                   7. 1. 4. 2         Taxation
                                                       An aggressive growth fund’s expense ratio is usually higher than that of a
                                                    AAA bond fund because more trading occurs in the growth fund’s portfolio.




                                     Mutual fund investors pay taxes on income and capital gains distributed by the fund.
                                 Dividends that qualify are taxed at 15%; for test purposes, all capital gains distributions are
                                 from the fund’s long term gains, so they are taxed at 15% to the investor. For investors in
                                 higher tax brackets, suggesting municipal bonds funds could be appropriate because their
                                 dividends (but not capital gains) are generally free from federal income tax. There are also
                                 funds that advertise themselves as tax efficient funds, but we don’t expect you’ll see that
                                 term on the exam.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 332                                                                                                          7/15/2016 2:03:05 PM
                                                                                                            Session 7   Pooled Investments      333




                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                          Dividends and capital gains distributions are currently taxable to the share-
                                                     holder, whether they are taken in cash or reinvested to purchase additional
                                                     shares. Dividends must be reported as dividend income and will be taxed either
                                                     as ordinary income or as a qualifying dividend with a maximum rate of 15%;
                                                     capital gains distributions must be reported as a long-term capital gain.




                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                          The American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 contained provisions for higher
                                                     tax rates for very high-income taxpayers. Those are taxpayers with taxable
                                                     income for 2016 that exceeds $415,050 ($466,950 for married taxpayers filing a
                                                     joint return). For these taxpayers, instead of a maximum rate of 15%, the capital
                                                     gains and dividend tax rate is 20% (not including the 3.8% tax on investment in-
                                                     come imposed by the Affordable Care Act). Therefore, these folks could be pay-
                                                     ing a rate as high as 23.8% on qualifying dividends and long-term capital gains.
                                                     We doubt that this information will be part of the exam, but, if we learn that it is,
                                                     we will post that information on the Exam Tips and Content Updates.




                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                          Although it is probably not tested, mutual funds can have net short-term
                                                     capital gains. Unlike gains on other securities, these are distributed as a non-qual-
                                                     ifying (no 15% rate treatment) portion of the dividend.


                        7. 1. 4. 3       Services Offered
                                         The services mutual funds offer include retirement accounts, investment plans, check-
                                     writing privileges, phone transfers, conversion privileges, combination investment plans,
                                     withdrawal plans, and others.


                        7. 1. 4. 4       Comparisons to Benchmarks
                                         We discuss benchmarks in greater detail in session 19, but, for purposes of comparing
                                     funds, consider how well the fund performed compared to an index of similar types of
                                     securities. For example, if the fund is a large-cap fund, how did its performance compare to
                                     the S&P 500? We know that past performance is no guarantee of the future, but if Fund X
                                     has consistently beaten the averages while Fund Y has had its good and not-so-good years,
                                     one might conclude that the management of Fund X is doing a better job.


                        7. 1. 4. 5       Tenure of the Fund Manager
                                         Consider the fund manager we discussed in the previous item. How long has that man-
                                     ager been with the fund, and what are the expectations for the future? Few things are more
                                     disappointing than recommending a specific mutual fund to suitable clients due to the
                                     outstanding long-term performance of the manager and then finding out that the manager
                                     has left the post and a new manager has taken over.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 333                                                                                                               7/15/2016 2:03:05 PM
     334        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




             7. 1. 5             SUITABILITY

                                     In determining suitability of mutual funds, the first step is to determine the customer’s
                                 primary objective. In general, the following basic rules apply.
                                 ■■ Investors seeking growth should invest in stock funds.
                                 ■■ Investors seeking income should invest in bond funds.
                                 ■■ Investors who are concerned about safety of principal should invest in government
                                     bond funds.
                                 ■■ Investors who are concerned with immediate liquidity should invest in money market
                                     funds.

                                     Hedge funds (covered later in this Unit) are for the speculative investor. They are not
                                 true mutual funds but do provide investors with an undivided interest in a portfolio. They
                                 are considered suitable for investors with high risk tolerance.




                             Q
                   QUICK QUIZ 7.B                   Match the objective with the type of fund.
                                                         A.    Balanced fund
                                                         B.    Aggressive growth fund
                                                         C.    Specialized fund
                                                         D.    Large cap stock fund

                                                    ____      1. Pursues capital growth with less than average risk

                                                    ____      2. Invests to maximize capital gains quickly with high risk tolerance

                                                    ____      3. Invests to diversify securities and is conservative

                                                    ____      4. Invests in medical technology and is not risk averse




                             Q
                  QUICK QUIZ 7.C                    Match the objective with the type of fund.
                                                         A.    Conservative growth fund
                                                         B.    Money market fund
                                                         C.    Small-cap fund
                                                         D.    Balanced fund

                                                    ____      1. Capital gains/income/lower risk

                                                    ____      2. Capital gains/moderate risk

                                                    ____      3. Liquidity/low risk

                                                    ____      4. Capital gains/higher risk




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 334                                                                                                            7/15/2016 2:03:05 PM
                                                                                                         Session 7   Pooled Investments      335




                             Q
                        QUICK QUIZ 7.D           Match the objective with the type of fund.
                                                     A. Government bond fund
                                                     B. Large-cap fund
                                                     C. Asset allocation fund

                                                 ____     1. Capital gains/income/lower risk

                                                 ____     2. Growth/low risk

                                                 ____     3. Income/low risk




                             Q
                        QUICK QUIZ 7.E           Match the objective with the type of fund.
                                                     A.    Ginnie Mae fund
                                                     B.    Special situation fund
                                                     C.    Asset allocation fund
                                                     D.    Index fund

                                                 ____     1. Purchase different classes of investments to achieve capital gains,
                                                              income, and diversification

                                                 ____     2. Mimic stock market indexes to achieve performance comparable to
                                                              the market overall

                                                 ____     3. Achieve safety of principal with yields slightly higher than government
                                                              bond fund

                                                 ____     4. Seek investments in companies with unusual opportunities


                        7. 1. 5. 1   Advantages to Investing in Mutual Funds
                                 ■■ Diversification: The old saying “don’t put all of your eggs in one basket” certainly
                                    applies to the benefits of diversifying one’s portfolio assets. Mutual funds are probably
                                    the easiest way to accomplish this. Although diversification may help to reduce risk, it
                                    will never completely eliminate it. It is possible to lose all or part of your investment.
                                 ■■ Professional management: Those individuals in charge of managing a mutual fund’s
                                    portfolio must be registered as investment advisers with the SEC.
                                 ■■ Convenience: With most mutual funds, buying and liquidating shares, changing
                                    reinvestment options, and getting information can be accomplished conveniently by
                                    going online at the fund’s website, by calling a toll-free phone number, or by mail.
                                 ■■ Liquidity: As mentioned previously, the requirement to redeem shares at NAV within
                                    seven days after presentation removes liquidity risk.



                               !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                     It is generally agreed that the #1 advantage to investing in mutual funds is
                                                 the diversification offered.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 335                                                                                                            7/15/2016 2:03:05 PM
     336        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                   7. 1. 5. 2         Disadvantages to Investing in Mutual Funds
                                 ■■ Risks: Even with the benefits offered by diversification and professional management,
                                    market prices do fluctuate. Equity funds have market risk, whereas bond funds may be
                                    subject to interest rate risk. The only mutual fund that generally does not fluctuate
                                    in price is the money market fund, but there is a trade-off in lack of growth and low
                                    income.
                                 ■■ Fees and expenses: One must carefully analyze all of the costs involved. These include
                                    sales charges, fees, and possible redemption fees. Management fees are probably the
                                    largest expense on an ongoing basis. The investor has no control over the manager’s
                                    timing of purchases and sales, so tax efficiency could become an issue. Prospectuses
                                    will not contain all the costs that affect the net return on the fund. This is why it is
                                    important to compare net returns after all expenses, including taxes to the investor.


             7. 1. 6             EXCHANGE-TRADED FUNDS (ETFs)
                                     An ETF registers with the SEC under the Investment Company Act of 1940 either
                                 as a unit investment trust (a “UIT ETF”) or as an open-end management company (an
                                 “open-end ETF”).
                                     This type of fund generally invests in a specific index, such as the S&P 500. Any class
                                 of asset that has a published index around it and is liquid can be made into an ETF so that
                                 there are ETFs for real estate and commodities as well as stocks and bonds. In this way, an
                                 ETF is similar to an index mutual fund. In fact, in recent years, there has been a growth in
                                 actively traded ETFs where, instead of attempting to mirror an index, the managers select
                                 individual assets based upon expected performance. The difference is that the exchange-
                                 traded fund trades like a stock on an exchange or Nasdaq and, in this way, is similar to a
                                 closed-end investment company. The investor can take advantage of price changes that
                                 are due to the market, rather than just the underlying value of the stocks in the portfolio.



                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         Although, as stated, most ETFs are passive in that they are based on some
                                                    index, in recent years, there has been a growth in actively traded ETFs where,
                                                    instead of attempting to mirror an index, the managers select individual assets
                                                    based upon expected performance. This concept will make more sense after you
                                                    read Session 16 explaining passive and active portfolio management styles.

                                     ETFs can be purchased on margin and sold short, just like any other listed stock. This
                                 is another difference between ETFs and mutual funds. Expenses tend to be lower than
                                 those of mutual funds as well because all the adviser has to do is match up to the specified
                                 index, so the fees are minimal. In addition, there can be tax advantages to owning ETFs.
                                     However, because there are brokerage commissions on each trade (in and out), ETFs
                                 are generally not competitive with a no-load index fund for the small investor making
                                 regular periodic investments such as in a dollar cost averaging plan (described in Unit 4).




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 336                                                                                                            7/15/2016 2:03:05 PM
                                                                                                           Session 7   Pooled Investments      337




                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                          There are now some U.S.-listed ETFs that are available for commission-free
                                                     trading on certain select platforms (these are typically proprietary funds). These
                                                     products can be bought and sold without traditional brokerage commissions for
                                                     investors with certain accounts and subject to certain restrictions. For exam pur-
                                                     poses, these are the exceptions rather than the rule.

                                          ETFs, along with other investment companies and REITs, are included in the term
                                     “pooled investment vehicles.” Many exchange-traded funds are legally classified as unit
                                     investment trusts (UITs) with the rest as open-end companies (although those cannot be
                                     referred to as mutual funds because shares are not redeemable).
                                          Unlike the CEF (close-end fund) where the market price will generally vary quite a
                                     bit from the NAV because those prices are determined by supply and demand, there are
                                     occasions where persistent small premiums and discounts arise in ETFs, but that is due to
                                     a structural inconsistency. Under normal circumstances, the premium and discount that
                                     arises between an ETF NAV and its trading price at the end of the day is the result of late
                                     in the day market activity and will narrow at the opening on the following trading day.


                   7. 1. 7           REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (REITs)
                                         A real estate investment trust (REIT, pronounced reet) is a company that manages
                                     a portfolio of real estate investments to earn profits for shareholders. REITs are normally
                                     publicly traded and serve as a source of long-term financing for real estate projects. A
                                     REIT pools capital in a manner similar to an investment company. Shareholders receive
                                     dividends from investment income or capital gains distributions. REITs normally:
                                     ■■ own commercial property (equity REITs);
                                     ■■ own mortgages on commercial property (mortgage REITs); or
                                     ■■ do both (hybrid REITs).

                                          REITs are organized as trusts in which investors buy shares or certificates of beneficial
                                     interest either on stock exchanges or in the over-the-counter market.
                                          REITs enjoy a unique hybrid status for federal income tax purposes. A REIT share-
                                     holder generally is taxed only on dividends paid by the REIT and on gains upon the
                                     disposition of REIT shares. A REIT is a corporation for U.S. tax purposes, but because it
                                     receives a dividends paid deduction, the REIT generally is not subject to corporate tax if it
                                     distributes to its shareholders substantially all of its taxable income for each year
                                          How much is “substantially” all? Under the guidelines of Subchapter M of the Internal
                                     Revenue Code, a REIT can avoid being taxed as a corporation by receiving 75% or more
                                     of its income from real estate and distributing 90% or more of its taxable income to its
                                     shareholders.



                                  !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                         Four important points to remember about REITs follow.
                                                         ■■ An owner of REITs holds an undivided interest in a pool of real estate
                                                            investments.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 337                                                                                                              7/15/2016 2:03:05 PM
     338        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                                         ■■ REITs are liquid because they trade on exchanges and over the counter.

                                                         ■■ REITs are not investment companies (mutual funds).

                                                         ■■ REITs offer dividends and gains to investors but do not pass through
                                                            losses like limited partnerships, and therefore are not considered to be
                                                            direct participation programs (DPPs).




                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                        In recent years, there has been substantial growth in the number of “non-
                                                    traded” REITs (limited liquidity). However, for exam purposes, assume the REIT is
                                                    publicly traded unless the question states otherwise.

                                    In summation, why would you include REITs in a client’s portfolio?
                                 ■■ The opportunity to invest in real estate without the degree of liquidity risk found in
                                    direct ownership
                                 ■■ A negative correlation to the general stock market (we’ll talk more about correlation
                                    in Unit 3, but, for now, it means that real estate prices and the stock market frequently
                                    move in opposite directions)
                                 ■■ Reasonable income and/or potential capital appreciation

                                    In doing so, the client would be incurring the following risks:
                                 ■■ Because the investor has no control, much of the risk in investing in REITs lies with
                                    the quality of the management.
                                 ■■ Problem loans in the portfolio could cause income and/or capital to decrease.
                                 ■■ Dividends are not considered qualified for purposes of the 15% maximum tax rate and
                                    are taxed at full ordinary income rates.
                                 ■■ If the REIT is not publicly traded, liquidity is very limited. While a portion of total
                                    shares outstanding may be redeemable each year, subject to limitations, redemption
                                    offers may be priced below the purchase price or current price.


             7. 1. 8             EXCHANGE-TRADED NOTES (ETN s )
                                      Although similar in some regards, don’t confuse ETFs with ETNs. It could be said that
                                 ETNs are cousins of ETFs. That said, just as with family members, there are some impor-
                                 tant differences. Most obvious is the difference in their basic structure. While ETNs are
                                 registered under the Securities Act of 1933, ETFs register under the Investment Company
                                 Act of 1940. Basically, this means that ETNs are made as debt instruments, while ETFs
                                 are looked at as investment companies. ETNs are a type of exchange-traded debt secu-
                                 rity offering a return linked to a market index or other benchmark. These are sometimes
                                 referred to as equity-linked notes (ELNs).
                                      Unlike ETFs, they do not buy or hold the assets replicating the performance of the
                                 underlying index. Some of the indexes and investment strategies used by ETNs can be
                                 sophisticated and very complex, carrying many different risks. They should be offered
                                 only to people who are knowledgeable and comfortable with the risks. Those risks, in part,
                                 include:
                                 ■■ credit risk (ETNs are unsecured debt obligations);




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 338                                                                                                              7/15/2016 2:03:05 PM
                                                                                                            Session 7   Pooled Investments      339




                                     ■■ market risk;
                                     ■■ liquidity risk (although exchange traded, a trading market may not develop);
                                     ■■ call, early redemption, and acceleration risk (ETNs may be called at the issuer’s discre-
                                        tion); and
                                     ■■ conflicts of interest (the issuer may engage in trading activities that are at odds with
                                        note holders [shorting, for instance]).


                   7. 1. 9           LEVERAGED ETF s
                                         These funds attempt to deliver a multiple of the return of the benchmark index they
                                     are designated to track. For instance, a 2x leveraged fund would try to deliver two times
                                     the return of whatever index it is tracking. With leveraged funds, there are no limits
                                     by rule or regulation as to the amount of leverage that could be applied to a portfolio.
                                     Currently there are numerous 2x and 3x leveraged funds available to investors. The risk
                                     associated with leverage is that it is always a double-edged sword; volatility is magnified.
                                     Therefore, the risk to be recognized regarding this fund strategy is that if the benchmark
                                     index is falling, then the fund’s returns will be, in theory, the designated leverage amount
                                     (perhaps 2 or 3) times the loss. In addition, most of these funds use derivatives products
                                     such as options, futures, and swaps to enable them to achieve the stated goal. Because
                                     these derivative products are not suitable for all investors, so too can it be said of the lever-
                                     age fund portfolio containing them. Ultimately, as always, suitability becomes an issue
                                     when recommending these products.


                   7. 1. 10 INVERSE (REVERSE) FUNDS
                                         Inverse funds, sometimes referred to as reverse or short funds, attempt to deliver
                                     returns that are the opposite of the benchmark index they are tracking. For example, if the
                                     benchmark is down 2%, the fund’s goal is to be up 2%. In addition, inverse funds can also
                                     be leveraged funds, or said another way, 2 or 3 times the opposite of the indices’ return.



                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                           Both leveraged and inverse index funds (leveraged or not) can be traded on
                                                      an exchange. When they are, they are known as exchange-traded funds (ETFs).
                                                      If the shares are exchange traded, they are priced by supply and demand, can be
                                                      purchased on margin, and bought and sold throughout the trading day, like all
                                                      exchange-traded products. For those that are not exchange-traded (e.g., inverse
                                                      mutual funds), they would be priced, purchased, and redeemed like all invest-
                                                      ment company shares. Neither of these fund types carry any guarantee that they
                                                      will achieve the stated goal or objective.




                                  !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                          FINRA warns investors that most leveraged and inverse ETFs “reset” daily,
                                                      meaning that they are designed to achieve their stated objectives on a daily basis.
                                                      Their performance over longer periods of time—over weeks or months or years—




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 339                                                                                                               7/15/2016 2:03:06 PM
     340        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                                    can differ significantly from the performance (or inverse of the performance) of
                                                    their underlying index or benchmark during the same period of time. Therefore,
                                                    in most cases, these would not be suitable investments for buy and hold investors
                                                    or those with other than a very short time horizon.



             7. 1. 11 STRUCTURED PRODUCTS
                                     When you need something that doesn’t yet exist, what do you do? You build it. That is
                                 the concept behind structured products; they are built (structured) to meet specific needs.
                                 In many cases, they involve structuring a debt issue in such fashion as to provide lower
                                 borrowing costs to the issuer while increasing potential returns to the lender. The goal is to
                                 give investors more reasons to accept a lower interest rate on debt in exchange for certain
                                 features.
                                     In other examples, options and other derivatives are used to provide possible principal
                                 protection or other goals. Needless to say, for the most part these are highly complex prod-
                                 ucts and should be limited to those investors who have the necessary financial sophistica-
                                 tion to be able to understand the potential risks. When used properly, they can be useful
                                 tools to increase portfolio diversification.


                   7. 1. 11. 1 Structured Notes with Principal Protection
                                     FINRA defines the term “structured note with principal protection” as any structured
                                 product that combines a bond with a derivative component and that offers a full or partial
                                 return of principal at maturity. Structured notes with principal protection typically reflect
                                 the combination of a zero-coupon bond, which pays no interest until the bond matures,
                                 with an option or other derivative product whose payoff is linked to an underlying asset,
                                 index, or benchmark. These notes are promises to pay made by the product issuers. That is
                                 why any guarantee that the principal will be protected, whether in whole or in part, is only
                                 as good as the financial strength of the company that makes that promise. For those who
                                 can remember, this is what happened to investors who purchased structured notes with
                                 principal protection issued by Lehman Brothers Holdings, which declared bankruptcy in
                                 September 2008.


                   7. 1. 11. 2 Risks of Structured Products
                                     There are several risks involved with structured products. Because of the customized
                                 nature of these products, there is little or no liquidity. Secondly, in most cases, these are
                                 structured so that the returns are not fully realized until maturity. As a result, these should
                                 appeal to buy and hold investors rather than short-term traders. There is also the matter
                                 of credit risk, so it is important to know the strength of the financial institution that is the
                                 issuer.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 340                                                                                                              7/15/2016 2:03:06 PM
                                                                                                Session 7   Pooled Investments      341




                             Q
                        QUICK QUIZ 7.F   1.   An open-end investment management company is also referred to as a(n)
                                              A.   exchange traded fund
                                              B.   face amount certificate company
                                              C.   mutual fund.
                                              D.   unit investment trust

                                         2.   If ABC Fund pays regular dividends, offers a high degree of safety of princi-
                                              pal, and appeals especially to investors in the higher tax brackets, ABC is a(n)
                                              A.   aggressive growth fund
                                              B.   corporate bond fund
                                              C.   money market fund
                                              D.   municipal bond fund

                                         3.   An investor has a portfolio diversified among many different asset classes. If
                                              there was an immediate need for cash, which of the following would prob-
                                              ably be the most liquid?
                                              A.   Cash value from a universal life insurance policy
                                              B.   CDL Common Stock Mutual Fund
                                              C.   QRS Money Market Mutual Fund
                                              D.   XYZ International Stock Mutual Fund

                                         4.   A review of the prospectus of an open-end investment company reveals that
                                              its portfolio consists entirely of CDs, Treasury bills, and repurchase agree-
                                              ments. This is probably a(n)
                                              A.   balanced fund
                                              B.   exchange-traded fund (ETF)
                                              C.   index fund
                                              D.   money market fund

                                         5.   In the context of purchasing shares in a mutual fund, the term “breakpoint”
                                              refers to the point at which the
                                              A. dollar amount of shares being purchased qualifies the investor for a
                                                 lower sales charge
                                              B. mutual fund company stops offering new shares to the public
                                              C. investor is assured of making a profit on the shares
                                              D. shares are selling for less than net asset value (NAV)

                                         6.   In order to meet certain IRS requirements, a REIT must distribute at least how
                                              much of its taxable income?
                                              A.   50%
                                              B.   75%
                                              C.   90%
                                              D.   99%




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 341                                                                                                   7/15/2016 2:03:06 PM
     342        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                                    7.   A couple in their early 30s has been married for 4 years, their disposable
                                                         income is relatively high, and they are planning to buy a condominium. If
                                                         they need a safe place to invest their down payment for about 6 months,
                                                         which of the following mutual funds is the most suitable for these
                                                         customers?
                                                         A.   LMN Cash Reserves Money Market Fund
                                                         B.   ATF Capital Appreciation Fund
                                                         C.   ABC Growth & Income Fund
                                                         D.   XYZ Investment-Grade Bond Fund

                                                    8.   Each of the following statements is true regarding exchange traded funds
                                                         (ETFs) and exchange traded notes (ETNs) EXCEPT
                                                         A. both are registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940
                                                         B. ETNs are recognized as debt instruments
                                                         C. ETNs generally employ investment strategies considered more sophisti-
                                                            cated and riskier than those employed by ETFs
                                                         D. both are traded on an exchange and therefore priced by supply and
                                                            demand




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 342                                                                                                            7/15/2016 2:03:06 PM
                                                                             Session 7   Pooled Investments       343




                        Q U I C K   Q U I Z   A N S W E R S

                   Quick Quiz 7.A                        Quick Quiz 7.F

                      1. B.                               1. C.   Investment companies may be one of three
                                                                  types: unit investment trusts, face amount
                      2. B.                                       certificates, or management companies.
                                                                  Within the category of management
                      3. A.
                                                                  companies, you will find open- and closed-
                      4. B.                                       end companies. Open-end investment
                                                                  management companies are also referred to
                      5. A.                                       as mutual funds.

                   Quick Quiz 7.B                         2. D.   Municipal bonds are considered second
                                                                  only to U.S. government securities in terms
                      1. D.                                       of safety. Furthermore, whenever you see
                                                                  a question about an investor in a high tax
                      2. B.                                       bracket, always look for the answer choice
                      3. A.                                       with municipal bonds; the tax-free income is
                                                                  the key.
                      4. C.
                                                          3. C.   Money market funds generally come with a
                   Quick Quiz 7.C                                 check-writing privilege offering investors the
                                                                  opportunity to convert the asset to cash at
                      1. D.                                       once. Although all mutual funds are readily
                                                                  redeemable, under the Investment Company
                      2. A.                                       Act of 1940, the fund has 7 days to redeem.
                                                                  One must request the cash value from the
                      3. B.
                                                                  insurance company.
                      4. C.
                                                          4. D.   Money market funds hold money market
                   Quick Quiz 7.D                                 instruments like negotiable CDs, Treasury
                                                                  bills, banker’s acceptances, commercial paper,
                      1. C.                                       and repurchase agreements.

                      2. B.                               5. A.   The term “breakpoint” refers to the point at
                                                                  which the number of shares being purchased
                      3. A.                                       is large enough to qualify the investor for
                                                                  a reduced sales load. FINRA and NASAA
                   Quick Quiz 7.E
                                                                  prohibit broker-dealers and their agents from
                      1. C.                                       making a mutual fund sale at just below
                                                                  the breakpoint merely to obtain a larger
                      2. D.                                       commission.

                      3. A.                               6. C.   In order to avoid having its income taxed, a
                                                                  REIT must “pass-through” at least 90% of its
                      4. B.                                       taxable income to its owners.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 343                                                                                    7/15/2016 2:03:06 PM
        344        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition



           7. A.       These customers are preparing to make a               8. A.   While ETFs are registered under the
                       major purchase within the next few months,                    Investment Company Act of 1940 and
                       so they require a highly liquid investment to                 recognized as investment companies, ETNs
                       keep their money safe for a short amount of                   are registered under the Securities Act of
                       time. The money market fund best matches                      1933 as debt instruments. ETNs generally
                       this objective.                                               employ sophisticated investment strategies
                                                                                     only suitable for those knowledgeable
                                                                                     enough to understand those strategies and
                                                                                     comfortable with the risks of those strategies.
                                                                                     When notes and funds are exchange traded
                                                                                     (ETNs and ETFs), they are priced by supply
                                                                                     and demand like other exchange traded
                                                                                     products.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 344                                                                                                             7/15/2016 2:03:06 PM
                             8
                             Insurance-Based
                             Products


                             I
                                 n the previous session, we discussed a number of different pooled invest-
                                 ment vehicles. In this session, we’re going to cover two more, variable
                                 annuities and variable life insurance. But those are not the only insur-
                             ance-based products that are relevant to this exam. Even though the others
                             we’ll discuss are not securities, understanding what they are and their basic
                             features are testable items.
                                  The Series 66 exam will include approximately 3 questions on the mate-
                             rial presented in this session. ■




                                                                                                         345




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 345                                                                         7/15/2016 2:03:06 PM
            OBJECTIVES


                                 When you have completed this session, you should be able to:

                             ■■ contrast the difference between fixed and variable annuities;

                             ■■ list the differences between variable annuities and mutual funds;

                             ■■ compute the account return for an index annuity;

                             ■■ compare the different purchase and settlement options for annuities;

                             ■■ calculate the tax on an early withdrawal from an annuity;

                             ■■ give an example of the major types of life insurance;

                             ■■ state the loan provisions applicable to a variable life policy; and

                             ■■ explain the exchange privilege applicable to a variable life policy.




      346




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 346                                                                             7/15/2016 2:03:06 PM
                                                                                                      Session 8   Insurance-Based Products      347




                                          Although many products offered by insurance companies are not securi­ties, the secu-
                                     rities professional should be aware of the features of both securities and non-securities
                                     offerings.



                   8. 1           ANNUITIES

                                         An annuity is generally a contract between an individual and a life insur­ance com-
                                     pany, usually purchased for retirement income. An investor, the annuitant, pays the pre-
                                     mium in one lump sum or in periodic payments. At a future date, the annuitant can either
                                     elect to surrender the policy and receive a lump sum payout or begin receiving regular
                                     income distributions that will continue for life.
                                         Because all earnings are tax-deferred, many individuals looking to accumulate addi-
                                     tional funds for retirement find annuities to be a valuable tool.
                                         Annuity contracts are classified into three types (depending on the payout the annuity
                                     makes):
                                     ■■ fixed annuities;
                                     ■■ variable annuities; and
                                     ■■ combination annuities.


                   8. 1. 1           FIXED ANNUITIES
                                         A fixed annuity guarantees a fixed rate of return. When the individual elects
                                     to begin receiving income, the payout is determined by the account’s value and
                                     the annuitant’s life expectancy based on mortality tables. A fixed annuity payout
                                     remains constant throughout the annuitant’s life.



                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                         Because the insurance company guarantees the return and the annuitant
                                                     bears no risk, a fixed annuity is an insurance product and not a security. A sales-
                                                     person must have a life insurance license to sell fixed annuities but does not need
                                                     to be securities licensed.

                                        Although principal and interest are not at risk, a fixed annuity risks loss of purchasing
                                     power because of inflation.




                               *
                              EXAMPLE                     An individual who annuitized a contract in 1990 may have been guaranteed
                                                     a monthly payout of $800. Decades later, this amount may prove insufficient to
                                                     live on.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 347                                                                                                               7/15/2016 2:03:07 PM
     348        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




             8. 1. 2             VARIABLE ANNUITIES
                                     Instead of purchase payments being directed to the insurance company’s general
                                 account, money deposited in a variable annuity is directed into one or more subaccounts
                                 of the company’s separate account. Although the options include money market securities
                                 and bonds, purchase payments are frequently invested in a stock portfolio, which has a
                                 better chance of keeping pace with inflation than fixed-income investments.
                                     The greater potential gain of a variable annuity involves more potential risk than a
                                 fixed annuity because it invests in securities rather than accepting the insurance compa-
                                 ny’s guarantees. Payouts may vary considerably because an annuity unit’s worth fluctuates
                                 with the securities’ value.

                                                       Fixed Annuities                            Variable Annuities

                                          Monthly payout is fixed                     Monthly payout varies
                                          Guaranteed interest rate                    Variable rate of return
                                          Investment risk assumed by insurance        Investment risk assumed by annuitant
                                          company
                                          Portfolio of fixed-income securities        Portfolio of equities, debt, money
                                                                                      market instruments
                                          General account                             Separate account
                                          Vulnerable to inflation                     Resistant to inflation
                                          Insurance regulation                        Insurance and securities regulation


                   8. 1. 2. 1         Separate Account
                                     The contributions that investors make to a variable annuity are kept in a separate
                                 account from the insurance company’s general funds.
                                     Because the investor rather than the insurance company bears the risk, a variable
                                 annuity is considered to be a security. As a consequence, variable annuity salespersons
                                 must have both a securities license (registered with FINRA and the applicable state or
                                 states) and an insurance license issued by the appropriate state(s).



                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                         It is the performance of the specific subaccount(s) selected by the investor
                                                    that determines the investment return.

                                                   Principal Features of Mutual Funds vs. Variable Annuities
                                                            Mutual Funds                      Variable Annuities
                                                   Investment company                 Insurance company
                                                   Shares                             Units
                                                   Investment objectives: varied      Investment objectives: primarily
                                                                                      growth and income
                                                   No guarantees                      Few guarantees
                                                   Redeemed by issuer                 Redeemed by issuer
                                                   Price based on formula             Price based on formula




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 348                                                                                                              7/15/2016 2:03:07 PM
                                                                                                    Session 8   Insurance-Based Products      349




                        8. 1. 2. 2       Combination Annuities
                                          A combination annuity attempts to provide a monthly payout that consists of guaran-
                                     teed fixed amounts as well as a payout that might keep pace with inflation.
                                          An investor contributes to both a fixed account and a variable account for a combina-
                                     tion annuity. The result is a guaranteed return on the fixed annuity portion and a poten-
                                     tially higher return on the variable annuity portion.


                        8. 1. 2. 3       Index Annuity
                                          In an effort to overcome the purchasing power risk of fixed annuities, but without the
                                     market risk of the variable annuity, the industry developed the index annuity (IA). This
                                     product is sometimes called an equity index annuity or a fixed index annuity.
                                          Indexed annuities (IAs) are currently popular among investors seeking market par-
                                     ticipation but with a guarantee against loss. Unlike a traditional fixed annuity, an index
                                     annuity credits interest to the owner’s account using a formula based on the performance
                                     of a particular stock index such as the S&P 500. If the index does well, the annuitant is
                                     credited with a specified percentage of the growth of the index—typically 80% or 90%
                                     of the growth. This is known as the participation rate. If, over the life of the annuity, the
                                     index does poorly, the annuitant may receive the IA’s minimum guaranteed return—typi-
                                     cally 3 or 4%.
                                          In addition to the participation rate, there is usually a cap rate. A typical cap might be
                                     12%. This means that if your annuity was pegged to the S&P 500 and that index increased
                                     30% during the year, your gain would be capped at 12%. One other negative characteristic
                                     of these products is that they tend to have longer surrender charge periods (as long as 15
                                     years) than other annuities, especially if there is a front-end bonus.




                               *
                              EXAMPLE                     To give you an idea of how an index annuity might work, consider one with
                                                     a participation rate of 80%, a cap rate of 10%, and a minimum guarantee of
                                                     3%. If the index shows growth of 9% during the index annuity’s measurement
                                                     period, the annuitant would be credited with 7.2% growth (80% of 9%, which is
                                                     less than the cap of 10%). In any year where the index declines, the annuitant’s
                                                     account is not credited with any earnings, but, and this is the real benefit, the
                                                     account does not lose any value either. The 3% guaranteed rate would apply if,
                                                     over the term of the annuity, performance was less than 3%.




                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                          Although index annuity is the preferred term in the industry, your exam may
                                                     refer to this product as an equity index annuity.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 349                                                                                                             7/15/2016 2:03:07 PM
     350        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                        In NASAA’s never-ending battle to try to baffle potential investment adviser
                                                    representatives with questions about products they will most likely never handle,
                                                    we are hearing from students that you should know the different crediting meth-
                                                    ods used for index annuities.
                                                         Without going into the technicalities (it seems all you have to know is the
                                                    different types, not a lot about how they work), the purchaser can be offered the
                                                    following choices as to how growth in the underlying index will be credited in the
                                                    form of interest to the account:

                                                    1.   Annual reset. In this method, the interest to be credited to the account is
                                                         computed by comparing the index value at the end of the year to the value
                                                         at the beginning of the year (hence the term annual).

                                                    2.   High-water mark. In this method, the highest value reached by the index
                                                         between anniversary dates of the annuity is compared to the value at the
                                                         beginning of the year.

                                                    3.   Point-to-point. In this method, the interest is computed based on the value
                                                         of the index at the end of the contract compared to the beginning. A varia-
                                                         tion is annual point-to-point.



             8. 1. 3             PURCHASING ANNUITIES
                                    Insurance companies offer a number of purchase options to make it easy for annuity
                                 owners to accumulate money.


                   8. 1. 3. 1         Deferred Annuity
                                     An annuity may be purchased with a single lump-sum investment (with payout
                                 of benefits deferred until the annuitant elects to receive them). This type of invest-
                                 ment is referred to as a single-premium deferred annuity.


                   8. 1. 3. 2         Periodic Payment Deferred Annuity
                                    A periodic payment deferred annuity allows a person to make periodic payments.
                                 The contract holder can invest money on a monthly, quarterly, or annual basis (with
                                 payout of benefits deferred until the annuitant elects to receive them).


                   8. 1. 3. 3         Immediate Annuity
                                     An investor may purchase an immediate annuity contract by depositing a single
                                 lump sum. The insurance company begins to pay out the annuity’s benefits imme-
                                 diately—usually within 60 days.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 350                                                                                                               7/15/2016 2:03:07 PM
                                                                                            Session 8   Insurance-Based Products      351




                        8. 1. 3. 4   Accumulation Stage
                                     The pay-in period for an annuity is known as the accumulation stage. During the
                                 accumulation stage of an annuity contract, the contract terms are flexible. An investor
                                 who misses a periodic payment is in no danger of forfeiting the preceding contributions.
                                     The contract holder can terminate the contract at any time during the accumulation
                                 stage, although the contract holder is likely to incur surrender charges on amounts with-
                                 drawn in the first five to 10 years after issuance of the contract. To discourage termina-
                                 tion of contracts, insurance companies often allow contract holders to borrow from their
                                 accounts without having to cancel the contracts.


                        8. 1. 3. 5   Accumulation Units
                                    An accumulation unit is an accounting measure that represents an investor’s
                                 share of ownership in the separate account. An accumulation unit’s value is deter-
                                 mined in the same way as the value of mutual fund shares. The unit value changes
                                 with the value of the securities held in the separate account and the total number of
                                 accumulation units outstanding.


                        8. 1. 3. 6   Sales Charges on Variable Annuities
                                     Unlike mutual funds, FINRA has not set a maximum sales charge for the sale of vari-
                                 able annuities. However, the SEC has ruled that charges must be reasonable and not
                                 excessive.

                                 8. 1. 3. 6. 1   Variable Annuity Sales and Redemption Practices
                                     Applications and purchase payments must be promptly transmitted to the issuer of
                                 the contract. The insurance company must make prompt payments on any redemption
                                 requested by contract holders in accordance with the contract terms.


                   8. 1. 4       RECEIVING DISTRIBUTIONS FROM ANNUITIES
                                     The payout period for an annuity is known as the annuity stage.


                        8. 1. 4. 1   Annuity Payout Options
                                     It is now time for the contract holder to decide on the settlement option. An annu-
                                 ity offers several payout options for amounts accumulated in the annuity contract. The
                                 investor can let the money accumulate in the annuity, withdraw the accumulated funds in
                                 a lump sum, or withdraw the accumulated funds periodically by annuitizing the contract.
                                 Annuitizing occurs when the investor converts from the accumulation (pay-in) stage to
                                 the distribution (payout) stage.
                                     The decision to annuitize the contract locks in the specified payout option. The con-
                                 tract holder may not change it. Annuity payout options, in order from largest monthly
                                 payout to smallest monthly payout, follow.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 351                                                                                                     7/15/2016 2:03:07 PM
     352        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                 8. 1. 4. 1. 1 Life Annuity/Straight Life/Pure Life
                                     Under this option, the payout is structured so that the annuitant receives periodic
                                 payments (usually monthly) over his lifetime. No added options or benefits exist; there-
                                 fore, for a given amount of funds, this option provides the largest periodic payment.

                                 8. 1. 4. 1. 2 Life Annuity with Period Certain
                                     Under the life annuity with period certain payout option, an annuitant receives pay-
                                 ments for life, with a certain minimum period guaranteed. If the annuitant dies before the
                                 period certain expires, payments continue to the annuitant’s named beneficiaries for the
                                 period certain. If the annuitant lives beyond the period certain, payments continue until
                                 the annuitant’s death.




                             *
                         EXAMPLE                         A client purchases a life annuity with a 10-year period certain payout. The
                                                    insurance company guarantees payments for the life of the annuitant or 10 years,
                                                    whichever is longer. If the annuitant lives for only one year after payments begin,
                                                    the company continues to make payments to the annuitant’s beneficiaries for
                                                    nine more years. If the annuitant dies after receiving payments for 13 years, pay-
                                                    ments cease at death.


                                 8. 1. 4. 1. 3 Joint Life with Last Survivor Annuity
                                     With this option, the annuity covers two or more people, and payout is conditioned
                                 on both (all) lives.




                             *
                         EXAMPLE                         A married couple owns an annuity jointly with a last survivor clause. The
                                                    contract pays benefits as long as one of the annuitants remains alive. The pay-
                                                    ment may be the same as when both were alive, or it may be reduced for the
                                                    surviving annuitant, depending on the contract. If this option includes more than
                                                    two annuitants, payments cease at the last survivor’s death.


                                 8. 1. 4. 1. 4 Refund Annuity
                                     Sometimes referred to as a unit refund annuity, under this settlement option, pay-
                                 ments will continue after death of the insured until the full value of the initial premium
                                 (principal) has been returned. In some cases, the payment to the beneficiary will be a lump
                                 sum of cash, in others, a series of monthly payments.

                                 8. 1. 4. 1. 5 Mortality Guarantee
                                    Annuity companies guarantee payments for as long as annuitants live. If a change
                                 occurs in life expectancy and annuitants live longer than originally anticipated, the insur-
                                 ance companies assume the increased mortality cost—the mortality guarantee.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 352                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:03:07 PM
                                                                                               Session 8   Insurance-Based Products      353




                                 8. 1. 4. 1. 6 Operating Expense Guarantee
                                     When calculating the amount an annuity company can pay out to a customer, the
                                 insurance company must project its own expenses for administering the plan. If for any
                                 reason the costs of operation increase, the company sets a ceiling for expenses charged to
                                 the separate account. If the actual costs are greater, the company pays the difference. This
                                 is known as the operating expense guarantee.


                        8. 1. 4. 2   Annuity Units
                                     When a contract is annuitized, accumulation units become annuity units. An annuity
                                 unit is a measure of value used only during an annuitized contract’s payout period. It is an
                                 accounting measure that determines the amount of each payment to the annuitant during
                                 the payout period.
                                     The number of annuity units is calculated when an owner annuitizes the contract.
                                 The number of annuity units does not change—it is fixed at the time of annuitizing—but
                                 each unit’s value fluctuates with the separate account portfolio’s value. This is, after all, a
                                 variable annuity. The number of units credited to the annuitant’s account is based on the
                                 value of the contract when the payout period begins and on other variables (such as the
                                 payout option selected, accumulated value of the annuitant’s account, individual’s age and
                                 sex, and assumed interest rate).


                        8. 1. 4. 3   Assumed Interest Rate (AIR)
                                     The assumed interest rate (AIR) is a basis for determining distributions from a vari-
                                 able annuity. The rate, usually estimated conservatively, provides an earnings target for
                                 the separate account. An AIR is used to estimate the value of an account through the
                                 annuitant’s age at death as forecasted by mortality tables.
                                     The higher the AIR, the higher the projected value of units and the greater the initial
                                 payment. The reverse also is true.

                                 8. 1. 4. 3. 1    Effects of Investment Performance on Annuity Payouts
                                     The AIR does not guarantee a rate of return. It is a tool for adjusting an annuity unit’s
                                 value to reflect changes in the investment performance of the separate account portfolio.
                                 As the annuity units change in value, so does the amount of the annuitant’s monthly pay-
                                 ment. The annuitant always receives a payment equal to the value of one or a specified
                                 number of annuity units times the unit value.


                        8. 1. 4. 4   Variable Annuity Payouts
                                     Variable annuity payments are determined initially by mortality tables and the value
                                 of an annuitant’s account. Variable annuity plans do not guarantee a payment amount
                                 because the insurance company cannot guarantee the separate account’s performance.
                                 The value of the separate account upon annuitization is used to determine the number of
                                 annuity units in the account; future payouts are determined by the annuity units’ fluctuat-
                                 ing value.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 353                                                                                                        7/15/2016 2:03:07 PM
     354        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                             *
                         EXAMPLE                       An investor who annuitized a variable annuity in 1990 and began with a
                                                    monthly payout of $375 may now be receiving $1,275 per month.


                                 8. 1. 4. 4. 1 Fluctuating Payouts
                                     After the insurance company determines the number of annuity units used in calcu-
                                 lating each payment, the amount of each payment equals the number of units multiplied
                                 by the annuity units’ current value. The number of annuity units used to calculate future
                                 payment remains the same; however, because the units’ value depends on the separate
                                 account performance, the annuitant’s payments may fluctuate if the units’ value fluctuates.




                             Q
                  QUICK QUIZ 8.A                    Matching
                                                         A.    Accumulation unit
                                                         B.    Joint and last survivor annuity
                                                         C.    Deferred annuity
                                                         D.    Variable annuity

                                                    ____      1. Delays distributions until the owner elects to receive them

                                                    ____      2.	Determines an annuitant’s interest in the insurer’s separate account
                                                                  before distribution from the annuity begins

                                                    ____      3. Performance of a separate account determines value

                                                    ____      4. Annuity payouts continue as long as one of the annuitants is alive

                                                    Quick Quiz answers can be found at the end of the session.




                             Q
                   QUICK QUIZ 8.B                   Matching
                                                         A.    Assumed interest rate
                                                         B.    Immediate annuity
                                                         C.    Life income with period certain
                                                         D.    Separate account

                                                    ____      1.	Contract starts to pay the annuitant approximately one month after
                                                                  its issuance

                                                    ____      2. The basis for projected annuity payouts, but not guaranteed

                                                    ____      3. Holds funds paid by variable annuity contract holders

                                                    ____      4.	If the annuitant dies before a specified time expires, payouts go to the
                                                                  annuitant’s named beneficiary




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 354                                                                                                                   7/15/2016 2:03:07 PM
                                                                                                    Session 8   Insurance-Based Products      355




                   8. 1. 5       TAXATION OF ANNUITIES
                                     Contributions to an annuity that is not part of an employer-sponsored retirement plan
                                 are made with after-tax dollars. Because contributions have been taxed already, the total
                                 amount contributed is not taxable when the account is annuitized. As with other invest-
                                 ments, the money invested in an annuity represents the investor’s cost basis.
                                     The primary advantage of an annuity as an investment is that the tax on interest,
                                 dividends, and capital gains is deferred until the owner withdraws money from the con-
                                 tract. On withdrawal, the amount exceeding the investor’s cost basis is taxed as ordinary
                                 income.


                        8. 1. 5. 1   Random Withdrawals
                                      Since 1982, random withdrawals from annuity contracts have been taxed under the
                                 last in, first out (LIFO) method. Earnings are presumed by the IRS to be the last monies
                                 to hit the account. The earnings are considered to be withdrawn first from the annuity
                                 and are taxable as ordinary income. After the withdrawal of all earnings, contributions
                                 representing cost basis may be withdrawn without tax.


                        8. 1. 5. 2   Lump-Sum Withdrawals
                                     Lump-sum withdrawals are taken by using the LIFO accounting method. This means
                                 that earnings are removed before contributions. If an investor receives a lump-sum with-
                                 drawal before age 59½, the earnings portion withdrawn is taxed as ordinary income and is
                                 subject to an additional 10% tax penalty under most circumstances.
                                     The penalty does not apply if the funds are withdrawn after age 59½, are withdrawn
                                 because of death or disability, or are part of a life-income option plan with fixed payouts.




                             *
                             EXAMPLE                  A contract with a $100,000 value consists of $40,000 in contributions and
                                                 $60,000 in earnings. If the investor withdraws all $100,000 at once, the $60,000
                                                 in earnings is taxed as ordinary income and the $40,000 cost basis is returned tax
                                                 free. If the investor is at least 59½, there is no 10% tax penalty; if younger, the
                                                 10% tax penalty applies. However, the penalty only applies to the taxable por-
                                                 tion ($60,000)—there is never a penalty tax on money that is not taxable.




                               !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                     Yes, it is true. Even when the distribution is from a non-qualified annuity, if it
                                                 is made before the age of 59 ½, it is subject to the 10% additional tax (unless it
                                                 meets one of the exceptions listed above).




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 355                                                                                                             7/15/2016 2:03:07 PM
     356        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                   8. 1. 5. 3         Annuitized Payouts
                                     Annuitized payouts are typically made monthly and are taxed according to an exclu-
                                 sion ratio. The exclusion ratio expresses the percentages of the annuity’s value upon
                                 annuitization of contribution basis to the total.




                             *
                         EXAMPLE                        If $50,000 in after-tax dollars was contributed to an annuity contract worth
                                                    $100,000 at annuitization, 50% of each payment will be treated as ordinary in-
                                                    come, whereas the other 50% of each payment will be treated (for tax purposes)
                                                    as nontaxable return of basis.

                                     Under certain circumstances, the annuitant’s life expectancy may also factor in the
                                 exclusion ratio.



                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                       Upon annuitization, there is never a 10% tax penalty, even if annuitization
                                                    commences prior to age 59½.




                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT

                                                    1.
                                                         Some additional tax concepts related to annuities are demonstrated below.
                                                         An annuity contract owner, age 45, surrenders his annuity to buy a home.
                                                         Which of the following best describes the tax consequences of this action?
                                                         A. Ordinary income taxes and a 10% early withdrawal penalty will apply to
                                                            all money withdrawn.
                                                         B. Capital gains tax will apply to the amount of the withdrawal that repre-
                                                            sents earnings; there will be no tax on the cost basis.
                                                         C. Ordinary income taxes and a 10% early withdrawal penalty will apply to
                                                            the amount of the withdrawal that represents earnings; there will be no
                                                            tax on the cost basis.
                                                         D. Ordinary income taxes apply to the amount of the withdrawal that
                                                            represents earnings; the 10% early withdrawal penalty does not apply to
                                                            surrenders.
                                                         Answer: C. Interest earnings are taxable as ordinary income. They are also
                                                         subject to the 10% early withdrawal penalty when withdrawn before age
                                                         59½. The contract holder recovers his cost basis without tax.

                                                    2.   After the death of the annuitant, beneficiaries under a life and 15-year
                                                         period certain option are subject to
                                                         A. capital gains taxation on the total amount of payments received
                                                         B. ordinary income taxation on the total amount of payments received,
                                                            plus a 10% withdrawal penalty if the annuitant was under age 59½
                                                         C. ordinary income taxation on the amount of the payout that exceeds the
                                                            cost basis
                                                         D. tax-free payout of all remaining annuity benefits




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 356                                                                                                             7/15/2016 2:03:07 PM
                                                                                            Session 8   Insurance-Based Products      357




                                                 Answer: C. Payments from the annuity to the beneficiary through a period
                                                 certain option are taxed in the same way as other periodic annuity payments;
                                                 benefits over the amount of the cost basis are taxable as ordinary income.
                                                 However, no 10% penalty applies in this situation.



                   8. 1. 6   ADVANTAGES TO INVESTING IN VARIABLE ANNUITIES
                                The following are advantages to investing in variable annuities.
                             ■■ Tax-deferred growth: All income and capital gains generated in the portfolio of the
                                separate account are free from income tax until the money is withdrawn. Over time,
                                this tax-deferred compounding can make a significant difference in the value of the
                                account.
                             ■■ Guaranteed death benefit: Most variable annuities contain a provision stating that
                                if the investor dies during the accumulation period, the beneficiary will receive the
                                greater of the current value of the account or the amount invested. Therefore, the
                                estate is assured of getting back at least the original investment.
                             ■■ Lifetime income: Although a variable annuity cannot guarantee how much will be
                                paid, choosing a payout option with lifetime benefits gives assurance that there will
                                be a check every month as long as the annuitant is alive. This benefit protects against
                                longevity risk, the uncertainty that one will outlive one’s money. Be sure that you don’t
                                refer to this as guaranteed income—that would be an incorrect statement on the exam,
                                because the income is variable.
                             ■■ IRS Section 1035 transfers: If you don’t like the annuity you’re in, you can transfer
                                to another one without any tax consequences. However, it is possible there will be a
                                surrender charge. This is unlike mutual funds, for which use of the exchange privilege
                                is a taxable event.
                             ■■ No age 70½ restrictions or requirements: Unlike traditional retirement plans that
                                have required minimum distributions after the age of 70½, an investor can delay with-
                                drawals as desired and, in fact, can continue to contribute.
                             ■■ No contribution limits: Unlike retirement plans, where the annual contribution is
                                limited, no IRS ceiling is placed on the amount that may be invested into a fixed or
                                variable annuity.
                             ■■ A choice of separate account objectives with professional management: Some variable
                                annuity companies offer 25–30 different subaccounts, each with a slightly different
                                objective and all managed by professionals.
                             ■■ Tax-free transfer between subaccounts: Unlike mutual funds where the exchange
                                between funds is a taxable event, the investor can transfer from one subaccount to
                                another without any current tax liability.
                             ■■ No probate: Since the annuity calls for direct designation of a beneficiary, upon death,
                                the asset passes directly without the time and expense of probate.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 357                                                                                                     7/15/2016 2:03:07 PM
     358        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




             8. 1. 7             DISADVANTAGES TO INVESTING IN VARIABLE
                                 ANNUITIES
                                 ■■ Earnings are taxed as ordinary income: Even though it is possible that the majority of
                                    the increase in value is generated through long-term capital gains, all earnings will be
                                    taxed at the higher ordinary income rate.
                                 ■■ The administrative and insurance-related expense fees are typically much higher than
                                    the fees incurred by owning a mutual fund.
                                 ■■ Withdrawals made before age 59½ will generally incur a 10% penalty, in addition to
                                    the ordinary income tax.
                                 ■■ Most variable annuities carry a conditional deferred sales charge. Therefore, surrender
                                    in the early years will usually involve additional costs.
                                 ■■ These are variable investments and carry the same investment risks as mutual funds.



                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                         A variable annuity offers an investor the opportunity to have tax-deferred
                                                    participation in the equity markets, albeit with expenses that are generally higher
                                                    than for a mutual fund with a similar objective.




             8. 2            LIFE INSURANCE
                                     A life insurance policy is a contract between an insurance company and an individual
                                 that is designed to provide financial compensation to the named beneficiaries in the event
                                 of the insured’s death.
                                     Many types of life insurance contracts are available; each type serves a different need.
                                 We will focus more attention on those contracts that use separate accounts to fund the
                                 death benefits and those that are considered securities, as defined by the Securities Act of
                                 1933.


             8. 2. 1             TERM INSURANCE
                                    Term insurance is protection for a specified period, hence the description, “term.”
                                 Term insurance provides pure protection and is the least expensive form of life insurance.
                                    The important facts about term life insurance policies include the following.
                                 ■■ They provide temporary insurance protection for a specified period of time (the policy
                                    term). For example, the term may be 1 year, 5 years, 10 years, 30 years, or to a specified
                                    age (such as age 65).
                                 ■■ They pay the death benefit only if the insured dies during the term of coverage. For
                                    example, a person buying a 20-year term policy at age 35 who dies at 56 will receive
                                    nothing.
                                 ■■ They do not accumulate cash value.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 358                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:03:08 PM
                                                                                                Session 8   Insurance-Based Products      359




                                 ■■ The death protection and premium remain level for the specified term (e.g., a $100,000
                                    five-year term policy provides a death benefit of $100,000 anytime during that five-
                                    year term).
                                 ■■ If renewed at the end of the term, the face amount remains the same, but, because
                                    the new premium is based upon the insured’s attained age, renewal premiums always
                                    increase.


                        8. 2. 1. 1   Uses of Term Insurance
                                     Term insurance has a variety of useful applications. One of the most common uses for
                                 term is to provide a substantial amount of coverage at a minimum cost. Since term insur-
                                 ance provides pure protection, it allows a person with a limited income to purchase more
                                 coverage than might otherwise be affordable. This is particularly important when there is
                                 a clear need for additional protection, particularly in the case of younger people, married
                                 with children.



                               !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                      For test purposes, younger people with children are better off purchasing
                                                 term insurance because the lower premiums allow significantly more protection.
                                                 For those age 60 and older, the rates are generally prohibitive.



                   8. 2. 2       WHOLE LIFE INSURANCE (WLI)
                                      A type of permanent or cash value insurance, whole life insurance (WLI) provides
                                 protection for the whole of life. Coverage begins on the date of issue and continues to the
                                 date of the insured’s death, provided the premiums are paid. The benefit payable is the face
                                 amount of the policy, which remains constant throughout the policy’s life. The premium is
                                 set at the time of the policy’s issue and it, too, remains level for the policy’s life.


                        8. 2. 2. 1   Cash Values
                                      Unlike term insurance, which provides only a death benefit, whole life insurance com-
                                 bines a death benefit with an accumulation, or a savings element. This accumulation,
                                 commonly referred to as the policy’s cash surrender value, increases each year the policy
                                 is kept in force. In traditional whole life insurance, the insurer invests reserves in conser-
                                 vative investments (e.g., bonds, real estate, mortgage loans).
                                      Because of the low risk of such investments, the insurer can guarantee the policy’s
                                 cash value and the nonforfeiture options that are based on that cash value. Traditional life
                                 insurance reserves are held in the insurer’s general accounts.


                        8. 2. 2. 2   Policy Loans
                                     Once an insured has accumulated cash value, it cannot be forfeited. An insured may
                                 cash in a policy at any time, by surrendering it in exchange for its cash value. An insured
                                 may also borrow a portion of the cash value in the form of a policy loan, but this must




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 359                                                                                                         7/15/2016 2:03:08 PM
     360        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                 be paid back (with interest) in order to restore policy values. When a policyowner takes
                                 a cash value loan, the amount borrowed and any accumulated interest due on the loan
                                 become an indebtedness against the policy. If the insured dies before the loan has been
                                 repaid, any indebtedness will reduce the face amount of the policy accordingly—it will be
                                 subtracted from any death benefit.


                   8. 2. 2. 3         Uses of Whole Life
                                     The principal advantage of whole life is that it is permanent insurance and accordingly
                                 can be used to satisfy permanent needs such as the cost of death, dying, and final burial
                                 expenses. The level premium allows the policyowner to always know exactly what the
                                 cost of insurance will be, and basically offers a form of forced savings. Whole life builds a
                                 living benefit through its guaranteed cash value that enables the policyowner to use some
                                 of this cash (through policy loans) for emergencies, as a supplemental source of retirement
                                 income, and for other living needs. The principal disadvantages of whole life insurance
                                 are that the premium paying period may last longer than the insured’s income-producing
                                 years, and it does not provide as much protection per dollar of premium as term insurance.
                                                                          Whole Life vs. Term
                                        Guaranteed interest rate on cash value       Term insurance will provide the highest
                                        buildup                                      face amount for the lowest premium
                                        Builds cash value with ability to borrow     Term insurance does not build cash value
                                        Remains in effect until age 100 as long as   Term insurance provides coverage for a
                                        premiums are paid                            specific period of time; it is pure protec-
                                                                                     tion



                   8. 2. 2. 4         Surrendering the Policy
                                    If the policyowner decides to stop paying the premiums, the policyowner may:
                                 ■■ surrender the policy for its cash value;
                                 ■■ take a reduced paid-up policy where the death benefit is decreased and future premi-
                                    ums are no longer required; or
                                 ■■ take extended term insurance which pays the beneficiaries the full face amount if
                                    death occurs within a specified time period.


             8. 2. 3             UNIVERSAL LIFE
                                     Universal life insurance was developed in the late 1970s in response to the relatively
                                 low interest rates (generally 3.5–5%) earned by traditional whole life insurance cash val-
                                 ues, which made the whole life product less attractive during periods of high inflation. In
                                 order to be more competitive, insurers introduced universal life policies that might pay
                                 higher interest rates (such as 8%, 10%, or even 12%) during inflationary times. These pol-
                                 icies also provide greater flexibility, because they allow policyowners to adjust the death
                                 benefits and/or premium payments based on current needs assessment.
                                     A universal life policy is similar to a whole life policy in the sense that it has the same
                                 two components—death protection and cash value. However, instead of being fixed and




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 360                                                                                                         7/15/2016 2:03:08 PM
                                                                                              Session 8   Insurance-Based Products      361




                                 guaranteed amounts, the death protection resembles one-year renewable term insurance
                                 and the cash value grows according to current interest rates.


                        8. 2. 3. 1   Characteristics of Universal Life
                                 ■■ Premium payments are separated first being paid toward the insurance protection,
                                    with the remaining balance being used to build the cash value (with interest).
                                 ■■ The policyowner may increase or decrease the death benefit during the policy term,
                                    subject to any insurability requirements.
                                 ■■ Premium amounts may be changed as long as enough premium is paid to maintain the
                                    policy. This is why universal life is known as flexible premium life. In fact, it is even
                                    possible to skip premium payments as long as there is sufficient cash value in the policy
                                    to keep it in force.
                                 ■■ The interest earned by the cash account will vary, subject to a guaranteed minimum.


                        8. 2. 3. 2   Universal Life Interest Rates
                                    Universal life contracts are actually subject to two different interest rates: the current
                                 annual rate and the contract rate.
                                 ■■ The current annual rate varies with current market conditions, and may change every
                                    year.
                                 ■■ The contract rate is the minimum guaranteed interest rate, and the policy will never
                                    pay less than that amount.

                                     For example, if the guaranteed contract rate is 5% and the current rate is 8%, the cash
                                 account would grow by the higher 8% during that year. But if the current rate falls below
                                 5%, the cash account would still grow by the minimum rate of 5% during that year.


                        8. 2. 3. 3   Universal Life Death Benefits
                                     Generally, there are two options available regarding the death benefit payable under
                                 a universal life policy.
                                 ■■ Option 1 (also known as option A) provides a level death benefit equal to the poli-
                                     cy’s face amount. As the policy’s cash value increases, net death protection actually
                                     decreases over the life of the policy, which makes the policy structure similar to a
                                     whole life contract. The major advantage of Option 1 is that the premiums are lower
                                     for the same face amount of death coverage. The trade off is that the level death ben-
                                     efit will not keep pace with inflation.
                                 ■■ Option 2 (also known as option B) provides for an increasing death benefit equal
                                     to the policy’s face amount plus the cash account. In terms of policy structure, this
                                     contract is more like a combination of level term insurance and increasing cash value
                                     than whole life insurance. The primary advantage of universal life insurance option
                                     B is that cash values grow more quickly over time. The cash values accumulate more
                                     quickly because of the higher initial premiums, and lower initial death benefit. Since
                                     the premiums are higher and the death benefit is initially lower, a greater portion of
                                     the premium is added to the policy cash value, which then grows interest free inside
                                     the contract.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 361                                                                                                       7/15/2016 2:03:08 PM
     362        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         With the original universal life policies, it was common that the flexibility of
                                                    premium payments caused policies to lapse with the result that one could not
                                                    truly say there was a guaranteed death benefit. Because of this, most insurers to-
                                                    day offer a guaranteed death benefit universal life where the policy is guaranteed
                                                    not to lapse if the sum of the premiums paid (less any loans or partial withdrawals
                                                    and partial withdrawal fees) is greater than or equal to the sum of the minimum
                                                    monthly premiums required. As a result, one can say that a universal life insur-
                                                    ance policy has at least some guaranteed death benefit.


                   8. 2. 3. 4         Universal Life Policy Loans
                                     Universal life provides for cash value loans in the same manner that whole life or any
                                 permanent plan of insurance does. If a loan is taken, it is subject to interest and, if unpaid,
                                 both the interest and the loan amount will reduce the face amount of the policy. Many
                                 universal life policies will also permit a cash withdrawal, also called a partial surrender,
                                 from the cash account. This is not treated as a loan. A partial surrender is not subject
                                 to any interest and will reduce the total cash value in the account (rather than the face
                                 amount). If this withdrawal is later repaid, it will be treated as a premium payment.


                   8. 2. 3. 5         Uses of Universal Life
                                     This is a form of permanent insurance that can build cash values, hopefully at a rate
                                 greater than with traditional whole life. There is typically a guaranteed minimum interest
                                 rate stated in the policy (usually around 4%) which means that, no matter how the invest-
                                 ments perform, there will be a known minimum return on the investment. The unique
                                 feature is the flexibility to adjust the death benefit as needs change, as well as the flexibility
                                 to pay smaller or larger premiums as financial conditions dictate.
                                     However, if the premium payments are reduced to the point where they can no longer
                                 support the policy, lapse could occur. Additionally, since this is a form of permanent insur-
                                 ance, poor investment results could cause premiums to increase (if the same face amount
                                 of coverage was desired).
                                     Another use of the flexibility of the premium payments is to “overfund” the policy,
                                 particularly when option 2 has been chosen. That is, pay premiums in excess of those
                                 required with that excess going into the savings portion of the policy. This can have the
                                 effect of greatly increasing the cash value—money that may be borrowed out of the policy
                                 without tax consequences if done properly. (This is beyond the coverage of this course.)


             8. 2. 4             VARIABLE LIFE INSURANCE
                                     Variable life insurance differs from whole life insurance in that the premiums are
                                 invested not in the insurance company’s general account, whose investments are deter-
                                 mined by the insurance company, but in a separate account, in whose investments the
                                 insured has some choice—common stock, bonds, money market instruments, and so on.
                                 The purpose is to let the customer assume some investment risk in an attempt to get infla-
                                 tion protection for his death benefit.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 362                                                                                                                  7/15/2016 2:03:08 PM
                                                                                             Session 8   Insurance-Based Products      363




                                      Cash value in the policy fluctuates with the performance of the separate account and
                                 is not guaranteed. Variable life policies provide policy owners with a minimum guaran-
                                 teed death benefit. The benefit may increase above this minimum amount depending on
                                 investment results but may never fall below.
                                      Also, remember what was said earlier about variable annuities being securities requir-
                                 ing those who sell them to be dually licensed (insurance and securities); the same is true
                                 for those who wish to sell variable life insurance.


                        8. 2. 4. 1   Scheduled (Fixed) Premium Variable Life
                                     A scheduled-premium (or fixed-premium) VLI contract is issued with a minimum
                                 guaranteed death benefit. (The premiums for some variable life contracts are flexible; this
                                 is discussed next under Variable Universal Life.) A scheduled-premium VLI contract’s
                                 death benefit is determined at issue, and evidence of insurability is required.
                                     The premium is calculated according to the insured’s age and sex and the policy’s
                                 face amount (guaranteed amount) at issue. Once the premium has been determined and
                                 the expenses have been deducted, the net premium is invested in a separate account the
                                 policyowner selects.


                        8. 2. 4. 2   Flexible Premium Variable Life (Universal)
                                      Universal variable life insurance (UVL or VUL) is a type of variable life insur-
                                 ance with flexible premiums (and thus flexible death benefit). If variable life insurance is
                                 analogous to a combination annuity (the death benefit represents the fixed part, the cash
                                 value the variable), then UVL is analogous to a variable annuity (nothing is guaranteed).
                                 Premiums are invested only in a separate account, and there is only a variable death ben-
                                 efit. The insured has the option to increase, skip, or reduce premium payments, though
                                 he must maintain a minimum cash value, and the death benefit is adjusted appropriately.


                        8. 2. 4. 3   Deductions from the Premium
                                     Deductions from the gross premium normally reduce the amount of money invested in
                                 the separate account. The greater the deductions, the less money available for the invest-
                                 ment base in the separate account. Charges deducted from the gross premium include:
                                 ■■ the administrative fee;
                                 ■■ the sales load; and
                                 ■■ state premium taxes (if any).

                                     The administrative fee is normally a one-time charge to cover the cost of processing
                                 the application.
                                     The maximum allowable sales load on variable life insurance is the equivalent of an
                                 average of 9% of premium per year, computed over a 20-year period. The sales charge may
                                 be front-end loaded to 50% of the first year’s premium, but must average out to 9% over
                                 a 20-year period. Because of the front-end loading, there are special sales charge refund
                                 rights for the first two years spelled out in the Investment Company Act of 1940.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 363                                                                                                      7/15/2016 2:03:08 PM
     364        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                   8. 2. 4. 4         Deductions from the Separate Account
                                     Deductions from the separate account normally reduce the investment return payable
                                 to the policy owner. Charges deducted from the separate account include:
                                 ■■ mortality risk fee (cost of insurance);
                                 ■■ expense risk fee; and
                                 ■■ investment management fee.

                                      The mortality risk fee covers the risk that the insured may live for a period shorter
                                 than assumed. The expense risk fee covers the risk that the costs of administering and
                                 issuing the policy may be greater than assumed. And, of course, the investment manage-
                                 ment fee is the cost of the management of the chosen separate account subaccounts.



                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         The exam may ask you which charges are deducted from the gross premium
                                                    and which are deducted from the separate account (the net premium). Remem-
                                                    ber the acronym SAS to make it simple. The charges deducted from the gross
                                                    premium are:
                                                         ■■ sales load;

                                                         ■■ administrative fee; and

                                                         ■■ state premium taxes.

                                                         Any other charges; such as cost of insurance, expense risk fees, and invest-
                                                    ment management fees, are deducted from the net premium, which is invested in
                                                    the separate account.


                   8. 2. 4. 5         Variable Life Insurance Death Benefit
                                     The death benefit payable under a variable life insurance policy consists of two parts:
                                 a guaranteed minimum provided by the portion of funds invested in the general account
                                 and a variable death benefit provided by those invested in the separate account. The guar-
                                 anteed minimum does not change, but total benefit, including the variable portion of the
                                 death benefit, must be recalculated at least annually.
                                     The effect that a change in earnings has on the contract’s variable death benefit
                                 depends on a comparison of actual account performance and the performance assumed
                                 by the insurance company. If the separate account returns are greater than the assumed
                                 interest rate (AIR), additional funds are available to the insured. These extra earnings
                                 are reflected in an increase in the death benefit. If the separate account returns equal the
                                 AIR, actual earnings meet estimated expenses, resulting in no change in benefit levels.
                                 Should the separate account returns be less than the AIR, the contract’s death benefit may
                                 decrease; however, it may never fall below the amount guaranteed at issue.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 364                                                                                                              7/15/2016 2:03:08 PM
                                                                                                      Session 8   Insurance-Based Products      365




                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                        If a variable life insurance policy has a minimum death benefit, the premiums
                                                    necessary to fund this part of the death benefit are held in the insurer’s general
                                                    account. Any policy benefit that is guaranteed is invested in the insurer’s general
                                                    account.
                                                         Any premium above what is necessary to pay for the minimum death benefit
                                                    is invested in the separate account. This portion of the premium is subject to
                                                    investment risk. The death benefit will grow above the minimum guaranteed
                                                    amount if the separate account performs positively. The death benefit will never
                                                    be less than the minimum guarantee, even if the separate account performs
                                                    poorly.




                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                        With positive performance in the separate account, the death benefit will in-
                                                    crease. If this is followed by several periods of performance that fails to equal the
                                                    AIR, the death benefit will decline (but never below the minimum guarantee). If
                                                    the decline has been steep enough, it may take several periods of positive results
                                                    before the death benefit increases again.


                        8. 2. 4. 6       Variable Life Insurance Cash Value
                                         The policy’s cash values reflect the investments held in the separate account. Unlike
                                     the death benefit, the individual policy’s cash value must be calculated at least monthly.
                                         The cash value, like the death benefit, may increase or decrease depending on the
                                     separate account’s performance. However, because the cash value is not based on any
                                     assumed interest rate, AIR, any positive performance will result in cash value growth. If
                                     performance has been negative, the cash value may decrease to zero, even if the contract
                                     has been in force for several years. The cash value cannot be negative, but the insurance
                                     company keeps track of negative performance. Therefore, like the death benefit, the cash
                                     value may not increase until prior negative performance has been offset.



                                  !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                         The AIR has no effect on cash value accumulation in a variable life policy.
                                                    The cash value will grow whenever the separate account has positive perfor-
                                                    mance. The AIR, however, does affect the death benefit. Just remember the rules
                                                    for variable annuities. The rules for the death benefits are analogous.
                                                        ■■ If the separate account performance for the year is greater than the AIR,
                                                           the death benefit will increase.

                                                        ■■ If the separate account performance for the year is equal to the AIR, the
                                                           death benefit will stay the same.

                                                        ■■ If the separate account performance for the year is less than the AIR, the
                                                           death benefit will decrease (but never below the guaranteed minimum).




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 365                                                                                                               7/15/2016 2:03:08 PM
     366        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                        You may see a question that asks about the frequency of certain calculations
                                                    associated with variable life insurance policies. Know that:
                                                         ■■ death benefits are calculated annually;

                                                         ■■ cash value is calculated monthly; and

                                                         ■■ separate account unit values are calculated daily (in the event there is a
                                                            withdrawal of cash value).


                                                      Comparison of Whole Life and Variable Life Policies
                                                                                                        Universal Variable Life
                                                 Whole Life                   Variable Life (VLI)
                                                                                                            (UVL or VUL)
                                        Scheduled premium                 Scheduled premium           Flexible premium
                                        Fixed death benefit               Minimum guaranteed plus     Variable death benefit
                                                                          variable death benefit
                                        Premiums to general ac-           Premiums to general and     Premiums to separate ac-
                                        count                             separate account            count
                                        Guaranteed cash value             No guaranteed cash value    No guaranteed cash value



                   8. 2. 4. 7         Variable Life Policy Loans
                                     Like traditional WLI, a VLI contract allows the insured to borrow against the cash
                                 value that has accumulated in the contract. However, certain restrictions exist. Usually,
                                 the insured may only borrow a percentage of the cash value. The minimum percentage
                                 that must be made available is 75% after the policy has been in force for three years. If
                                 the death benefit becomes payable during any period that a loan is outstanding, the loan
                                 amount is deducted from the death benefit before payment. The interest rate charged is
                                 stated in the policy.



                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                         Several testable facts about policy loans are as follows.
                                                         ■■ A minimum of 75% of the cash value must be available for policy loan
                                                            after the policy has been in force three years.

                                                         ■■ The insurer is never required to loan 100% of the cash value. Full cash
                                                            value is obtained by surrendering the policy to the insurer.

                                                         ■■ If the insured dies with a loan outstanding, the death benefit is reduced
                                                            by the amount of the loan.

                                                         ■■ If the insured surrenders his contract with a loan outstanding, cash value
                                                            is reduced by the amount of the loan.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 366                                                                                                               7/15/2016 2:03:08 PM
                                                                                                   Session 8   Insurance-Based Products      367




                        8. 2. 4. 8   Variable Life Insurance Contract Exchange
                                     A unique feature of variable life insurance is the ability for the insured to change his
                                 mind. During the early stage of ownership, you have the right to exchange a VLI con-
                                 tract for a form of permanent insurance issued by the company with comparable benefits
                                 (usually whole life). The length of time this exchange privilege is in effect varies from
                                 company to company, but under no circumstances may the period be less than 24 months
                                 (federal law).
                                     The exchange is allowed without evidence of insurability. If a contract is exchanged,
                                 the new permanent policy has the same contract date and death benefit as the minimum
                                 guaranteed in the VLI contract. The premiums equal the amounts guaranteed in the new
                                 permanent contract (as if it were the original contract).



                               !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                     Three testable facts about the contract exchange provision are listed here.
                                                     ■■ The contract exchange provision must be available for a minimum of
                                                        two years.

                                                     ■■ No medical underwriting (evidence of insurability) is required for the
                                                        exchange.

                                                     ■■ The new policy is issued as if everything were retroactive. That is, the
                                                        age of the insured as of the original date is the age used for premium
                                                        calculations for the new policy.


                        8. 2. 4. 9   Variable Life Insurance Voting Rights
                                     Contract holders receive one vote per $100 of cash value funded by the separate
                                 account. As with other investment company securities, changes in investment objectives
                                 and other important matters may be accomplished only by a majority vote of the separate
                                 account’s outstanding shares or by order of the state insurance commissioner.



                               !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                       Do not confuse the voting rights of variable annuities and variable life. Vari-
                                                 able annuities and mutual funds are the same: one vote per unit (share). Variable
                                                 life is one vote per $100 of cash value.


                        8. 2. 4. 10 Uses of Variable Life Insurance
                                     It must be emphasized that variable life insurance must be sold as life insurance, not
                                 as an investment. However, the ability to commit a portion of the premium to investor
                                 selected separate account subaccounts, makes this form of insurance unique. There is a
                                 guaranteed minimum death benefit, but if separate account performance merits such, the
                                 death benefit can increase to keep pace with inflation. Cash values, although not guaran-
                                 teed, can also increase based upon that performance. As with any variable product, the
                                 investor bears the investment risk rather than the insurance company.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 367                                                                                                            7/15/2016 2:03:08 PM
     368        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                             Q
                  QUICK QUIZ 8.C                         Match each of the following numbers with the best description below.
                                                         A. 9
                                                         B. 24
                                                         C. 75

                                                    _____ 1.	Minimum percent of cash value that must be available for a policy
                                                              loan after 3 years

                                                    _____ 2. Number of months contract exchange provision must be in place

                                                    _____ 3. Maximum sales charge allowed over life of a variable life policy



             8. 2. 5             LIFE SETTLEMENTS
                                      Selling a life insurance policy (or the right to receive the death benefit) to any per-
                                 son other than the insurance company that issued the policy, is a transaction known as a
                                 viatical or life settlement. NASAA concludes that viatical investments, regardless of the
                                 health status or age of the insured, are securities. All persons involved in the offer and/
                                 or sale of viatical investments should be aware of the nature and extent of the registra-
                                 tion and antifraud provisions of state securities laws, as well as the applicability of these
                                 provisions to every offer and/or sale of a security. Because licensing is done on a state by
                                 state basis, there is little uniformity. Some states require just a life insurance license, some
                                 require both a life insurance and a life settlement license, and some require either or both
                                 of these and being licensed as a securities agent.
                                      As with so much else, the regulators are concerned about suitability and disclosure.
                                 When a life insurance policy is sold to an investor, the buyer is acquiring a financial inter-
                                 est in the insured’s death. In addition to paying a lump sum, the purchaser agrees to pay
                                 any premiums that are necessary to support the cost of the policy for as long as the insured
                                 lives. In exchange, the buyer will receive the death benefit upon death of the insured.
                                 Because there is no active secondary market for these policies, it is difficult to arrive at
                                 a fair evaluation. When attempting to sell a policy on behalf of your client, it is recom-
                                 mended that you seek out multiple bids in an effort to achieve the best price.


             8. 2. 6             TAX IMPLICATIONS OF LIFE INSURANCE
                                     There are a number of tax implications involved with life insurance policies including
                                 both income and estate taxation. These will be covered in Unit 4, Session 17, where we
                                 discuss the topic of taxation.




                             Q
                  QUICK QUIZ 8.D                       Choose W for whole life, V for variable life, and U for universal variable life.
                                                    More than one may apply to each choice.

                                                    _____     1. Features a stated premium

                                                    _____     2. Always has some guaranteed death benefit




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 368                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:03:08 PM
                                                                                             Session 8   Insurance-Based Products      369




                                         _____       3. Features a guaranteed cash value

                                         _____       4. Cash value not guaranteed

                                         _____       5. Policy loans available




                             Q
                        QUICK QUIZ 8.E   1.   Which of the following is considered to be an advantage of annuitization?
                                              A. It guarantees income that will last for the client’s lifetime.
                                              B. Once annuitized, the client’s draw from the annuity is limited to the
                                                 annuity payment.
                                              C. A fixed, level periodic payment tends to lose buying power over time
                                                 due to inflation.
                                              D. Payments under a variable annuity could be reduced if there is a declin-
                                                 ing market.

                                         2.   A 49-year-old customer purchases a single premium deferred variable annu-
                                              ity. She selects a sub-account of the separate account that is composed
                                              largely of equity securities. She is assuming all of the following risks EXCEPT
                                              A. she is not assured of the return of her invested principal
                                              B. the underlying portfolio is primarily common stocks, which have no
                                                 guaranteed return
                                              C. as an investor, she can be held liable for the debts incurred by the insur-
                                                 ance company
                                              D. if she needs to withdraw a portion of her investment prior to reaching
                                                 age 59½, she may incur a 10% tax penalty

                                         3.   The difference between a fixed annuity and a variable annuity is that the
                                              variable annuity
                                                I.   offers a guaranteed return.
                                               II.   offers a payment that may vary in amount.
                                              III.   will always pay out more money than the fixed annuity.
                                              IV.    attempts to offer protection to the annuitant from inflation.
                                               A.    I and III
                                               B.    I and IV
                                               C.    II and III
                                               D.    II and IV

                                         4.   A 30-year-old client indicates that he needs $500,000 of life insurance cover-
                                              age for the next 20 years. The lowest out-of-pocket cost would be if he
                                              purchased a
                                              A.     20-pay life policy
                                              B.     20-year level term policy
                                              C.     whole life policy
                                              D.     variable annuity with an extended death benefit




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 369                                                                                                      7/15/2016 2:03:08 PM
       370         Series 66 Uniform Investment Adviser Law Exam, 10th Edition




             Q U I C K               Q U I Z            A N S W E R S

        Quick Quiz 8.A                                                           Quick Quiz 8.E

           1. C.                                                                   1. A. Annuities offer a guarantee of income
                                                                                           that will last for a client’s lifetime. The
           2. A.                                                                           other statements, while true, represent
                                                                                           disadvantages of annuitization. Annuitization
           3. D.
                                                                                           does limit liquidity and flexibility.
           4. B.
                                                                                   2. C.   Purchasers of variable (or fixed) annuities
        Quick Quiz 8.B                                                                     have no responsibility for obligations of the
                                                                                           insurance company. The contract holder
           1. B.                                                                           bears the investment risk in a variable
                                                                                           annuity. This means that the portfolio is
           2. A.                                                                           not guaranteed to return a specified rate,
                                                                                           and the principal invested will also fluctuate
           3. D.
                                                                                           in value according to the securities held in
           4. C.                                                                           the separate account portfolio. Withdrawals
                                                                                           of earnings prior to age 59½, (with limited
        Quick Quiz 8.C                                                                     exceptions), are subject to a 10% tax penalty.

           1. C.                                                                   3. D.   Variable annuities differ from fixed annuities
                                                                                           because the payments vary and are designed
           2. B.                                                                           to offer the annuitant protection against
                                                                                           inflation.
           3. A.
                                                                                   4. B.   In almost all circumstances, certainly for
        Quick Quiz 8.D                                                                     short-to-immediate time periods, term life
                                                                                           will be the least expensive form of insurance.
           1. W, V
                                                                                           A 20-pay life is a permanent policy where the
           2. W, U, V                                                                      premiums are paid in a 20-year period rather
                                                                                           than until death. Variable annuities are not
           3. W                                                                            life insurance policies even though they are
                                                                                           issued by life insurance companies.
           4. V, U

           5. W, U, V




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 370                                                                                                                  7/15/2016 2:03:08 PM
                             9
                             Types and Characteristics
                             of Derivative Securities


                             T
                                    his session discusses both securities and non-securities derivatives.
                                    You can expect to see 1 question about derivatives on the Series 66
                                    exam. The term derivative is used to describe investment vehicles
                             that derive their value from an underlying asset, whether that asset be a
                             security, such as a stock, or a physical commodity, such as wheat. ■




                                                                                                            371




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 371                                                                           7/15/2016 2:03:08 PM
            OBJECTIVES


                                 When you have completed this session you should be able to:

                             ■■ explain the difference between a put option and a call option;

                             ■■ identify the proper hedging strategies for long stock and short stock positions; and

                             ■■ describe the difference between futures and forwards contracts.




      372




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 372                                                                                         7/15/2016 2:03:09 PM
                                                                          Session 9   Types and Characteristics of Derivative Securities      373




                   9. 0      OPENING AN OPTIONS ACCOUNT

                                  NASAA does not have a specific rule dealing with the opening of options accounts.
                              Therefore, we will refer to the FINRA rules that are used as the guidelines for most states.
                                  Because trading options (puts and calls) generally involves a higher degree of risk
                              than stocks, bonds, or mutual funds, a designated supervisory person with knowledge
                              about options must approve the account opening. In addition, there is a special Options
                              Disclosure Document (ODD) that must be provided to any prospective options customer.
                                  In approving a customer’s account for options trading, a broker-dealer, or agent associ-
                              ated with the broker-dealer, must exercise due diligence to ascertain the essential facts rel-
                              ative to the customer, his financial situation, and his investment objectives. One question
                              asked on a new options account form that is not required on a normal brokerage account
                              opening is investment experience and knowledge (e.g., number of years, size, frequency,
                              and type of transactions) for options, stocks and bonds, commodities, and other financial
                              instruments. Based upon such information, the designated supervisory person shall specifi-
                              cally approve or disapprove in writing the customer’s account for options trading.
                                  The account approval will indicate the:
                              ■■ date the options disclosure document (ODD) is furnished to the customer;
                              ■■ nature and types of transactions for which the account is approved (e.g., buying, cov-
                                  ered writing, uncovered writing, spreading, discretionary transactions);
                              ■■ name of the agent assigned to the account;
                              ■■ name of the supervisor approving the account;
                              ■■ date of approval; and
                              ■■ dates of verification of currency of account information.



                   9. 1      DERIVATIVE SECURITIES—OPTIONS
                                  Options are derivative securities, which means that they derive their value from that
                              of an underlying instrument, such as a stock, stock index, interest rate, or foreign currency.
                              Option contracts offer investors a means to hedge, or protect, an investment’s value or
                              speculate on the price movement of individual securities, markets, foreign currencies, and
                              other instruments.
                                  An option is a contract that establishes a price and time frame for the purchase or sale
                              of a particular security. Two parties are involved in the contract: one party receives the
                              right to exercise the contract to buy or sell the underlying security; the other is obligated
                              to fulfill the terms of the contract.
                                  In theory, options can be created on any item with a fluctuating market value. The
                              most familiar options are those issued on common stocks; they are called equity options.
                                  The exam is going to deal solely with standardized options traded on an exchange.
                              They are called standardized options because each options contract has three standardized
                              terms:
                              ■■ The underlying asset. That is, all options on XYZ stock are for 100 shares of the XYZ
                                  common stock




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 373                                                                                                             7/15/2016 2:03:09 PM
     374        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                 ■■ The expiration date. All options that expire in June (or July or whatever month) have
                                    the same date and time of expiry
                                 ■■ The exercise or strike price. Strike prices are set at standardized intervals.

                                      It is this standardization that makes secondary trading in options possible.



                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         If you have recently passed the Series 7, you may find much of this discus-
                                                    sion to be familiar. However, for those who haven’t (and even if you have), you’ll
                                                    probably benefit from the review.



             9. 1. 1             CALLS AND PUTS
                                    There are two types of option contracts: calls and puts.
                                 ■■ A call option gives its holder the right to buy a stock for a specific price within a speci-
                                    fied time frame. A call buyer buys the right to buy a specific stock, and a call seller takes
                                    on the obligation to sell the stock.
                                 ■■ A put option gives its holder the right to sell a stock for a specific price within a speci-
                                    fied time frame. A put buyer buys the right to sell a specific stock, and a put seller takes
                                    on the obligation to buy the stock.

                                      Each stock option contract covers 100 shares (a round lot) of stock. An option’s cost
                                 is its premium. Premiums are quoted in dollars per share.




             9. 1. 2
                             *
                         EXAMPLE




                                 OPTION TRANSACTIONS
                                                        Because a contract covers 100 shares, a premium of $3 means $3 for each
                                                    share times 100 shares, which equals $300.




                                    Because two types of options (calls and puts) and two types of transactions (buying
                                 and selling) exist, four basic transactions are available to an option investor:
                                 ■■ Buy calls
                                 ■■ Sell calls
                                 ■■ Buy puts
                                 ■■ Sell puts

                                      Option buyers are long the positions; option sellers are short the positions.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 374                                                                                                               7/15/2016 2:03:09 PM
                                                                                 Session 9   Types and Characteristics of Derivative Securities      375




                        9. 1. 2. 1       Opening and Closing Transactions
                                         An option conveys rights and obligations for a limited time. Therefore, each transac-
                                     tion has a beginning and an end—an open and a close. For instance, an option position
                                     opened by an investor buying a call is closed when the call is exercised, is sold, or expires.
                                     An option position opened by an investor selling a call is closed when the call is exercised,
                                     is bought, or expires.
                                         The owner (long position) of a put or call option contract has three ways to close a
                                     position:
                                     ■■ sell the option contract before the expiration date.;
                                     ■■ exercise the option to buy or sell the security specified in the contract; or
                                     ■■ let the option expire.

                                         The simplest and most common way to close an option position is entering the trans-
                                     action opposite of the opening transaction. The following table summarizes potential
                                     opening and closing positions.

                                                                     Open             To Close

                                                                     Buy call         Sell call
                                                                     Sell call        Buy call
                                                                     Buy put          Sell put
                                                                     Sell put         Buy put



                        9. 1. 2. 2       Exercising an Option
                                          In some cases, the holder of the option (only owners can exercise – it is one of their
                                     “rights”) will decide to exercise the option. Exercising a call means purchasing the under-
                                     lying stock at the strike price; exercising a put means selling the underlying stock at the
                                     strike price. For example, if you were long an ABC 50 Call and the current market price
                                     of ABC is 60, you would be able to exercise and purchase stock worth $60 per share at the
                                     exercise price of $50. Or, if you were long an XYZ $45 put and the current market price
                                     of XYZ is $35, you might wish to purchase 100 shares of XYZ at $35 per share and then
                                     exercise your option to “put” the stock at $45. The test may ask you the difference between
                                     American- and European-style exercises. American style means the option can be exer-
                                     cised at any time the holder wishes, up to the expiration date. European-style options may
                                     only be exercised on the last trading day before the expiration date.



                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                         A tool for remembering the difference between American and European
                                                     exercise is to look at the first letter.
                                                         A for American means Anytime
                                                         E for European means Expiration date




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 375                                                                                                                    7/15/2016 2:03:09 PM
     376        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                        Now that you have become so focused on the exercise date differences be-
                                                    tween American and European styles, be prepared for a question stem like ”A Eu-
                                                    ropean option is a derivative because,” and the first answer choice will probably
                                                    be “it can only be exercised on the expiration date.” Although that is true about
                                                    exercise, it has nothing to do with why options are derivatives. Please select an
                                                    answer choice similar to “its value is based on some underlying asset.”




                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         Perhaps you noticed an inconsistency. First, we told you that European style
                                                    means the option can only be exercised on the day prior to its expiration date.
                                                    Then, we told you it is only exercised on its expiration date. In the industry, there
                                                    seems to be much confusion about this, and for exam purposes, either statement
                                                    is correct (and you won’t have to choose between them).


                   9. 1. 2. 3         Options Greeks
                                     Many of our students tell us that when it comes to understanding options, “it is all
                                 Greek to me”. Maybe that is why options strategists use a number of Greek letters to
                                 describe various properties of an option. There are four commonly used Greeks, Delta,
                                 Gamma, Theta, and Vega. It is highly unlikely that you will have to know anything about
                                 them, but we’ve given a short definition of each in the glossary.


             9. 1. 3             OPTIONS STRATEGIES
                                      Options strategies are either bullish or bearish positions on the underlying stock.
                                 Bulls believe the price of a security will go up and bears believe the price of a security will
                                 go down. The primary reasons for buying or selling options are to profit from or hedge
                                 (protect) against price movement in the underlying security.
                                      A bullish investor may buy calls seeking profit if the price of the underlying stock rises.
                                 Alternatively, one with a short position in a stock would purchase a call option to hedge
                                 against a price increase in the underlying stock. A bearish investor buy puts seeking profit
                                 if the price of the underlying stock declines. Alternatively, one with a long position in a
                                 stock would purchase a put option to hedge against a price decline in the underlying stock.



                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         A phrase that is invaluable for figuring out options questions is “Call Up and
                                                    Put Down.” That is, you would buy a call because you are hoping (or are afraid)
                                                    the price of the stock will go up, and buy a put because you are hoping (or are
                                                    afraid) the price of the stock will go down.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 376                                                                                                                  7/15/2016 2:03:10 PM
                                                                             Session 9   Types and Characteristics of Derivative Securities      377




                        9. 1. 3. 1   Buying Calls
                                     Investors expecting a stock to increase in value speculate on that price increase by
                                 buying calls on the stock.
                                     By buying a call, an investor can profit from the increase in the stock’s price while
                                 investing a relatively small amount of money. The most a call buyer can lose is the money
                                 paid for the option. The most a call buyer can gain is unlimited because there is no limit to
                                 how high the stock price can go. Owners of options (puts or calls) do not receive dividends
                                 on the underlying stock.
                                     As we will show you shortly, buying calls is also a hedging (protection) strategy when
                                 the investor is afraid the stock price will rise.


                        9. 1. 3. 2   Writing Calls
                                     A neutral or bearish investor can write (sell) a call and collect the premium. An inves-
                                 tor who believes a stock’s price will stay the same or decline can write a call to:
                                 ■■ generate income from the option premium;
                                 ■■ partially protect (hedge) a long stock position by offsetting any loss on the sale of the
                                     stock by the premium amount; or
                                 ■■ If the stock price increases, the call may be exercised. In addition to the premium
                                     received when the option was sold, the writer will be paid the strike price for the stock,
                                     If the option writer owns the stock on which the call is being written, it is known as
                                     a covered call and the risk is limited because no matter how high the stock price rises
                                     (meaning the call will certainly be exercised), the writer merely uses the stock already
                                     owned (which has been deposited with the broker-dealer) to make delivery. However,
                                     if the writer does not own the stock, the option is uncovered (usually referred to as
                                     “naked” in the industry). That’s when the risk is unlimited, because the writer must
                                     pay the going market price (and there is theoretically no limit as to how high a stock’s
                                     price can go) to acquire the stock needed to fulfill the obligation to deliver. That is
                                     why naked call writing is the most risky option strategy.


                        9. 1. 3. 3   Buying Puts
                                     A bearish investor—one who believes a stock will decline in price—can speculate on
                                 the price decline by buying puts. A put buyer acquires the right to sell 100 shares of the
                                 underlying stock at the strike price before the expiration date.

                                     As we will show you shortly, buying puts is also a hedging (protection) strategy when
                                 the investor is afraid the stock price will fall.


                        9. 1. 3. 4   Writing Puts
                                      Generally, investors who write puts believe that the stock’s price will rise or remain
                                 stable. A put writer (seller) is obligated to buy stock at the exercise price if the put buyer
                                 puts it to the put writer. If a stock’s price is above the put strike price at expiration, the
                                 put expires unexercised, allowing the put writer to keep the premium. Just as with writing
                                 calls, receiving that premium is a source of income. Put writers will lose if the stock price
                                 falls (the buyer “wins”), but the loss is limited because the stock price can never fall below
                                 zero.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 377                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:03:10 PM
     378        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                   9. 1. 3. 5         Straddles
                                      When an investor is not sure which direction the market will move but has a strong
                                 opinion that there will be dynamic movement, a strategy that might be employed is the
                                 purchase of a straddle. This is the combining of a put and a call on the same stock with the
                                 same exercise price and expiration date. If the stock moves up, a profit is made on the call;
                                 if down, a profit is made on the put.



                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                         Those who buy a straddle will profit from volatility while those who sell a
                                                    straddle will profit if the market is stable because the options will expire unexer-
                                                    cised.




                             Q
                  QUICK QUIZ 9.A                         Matching (each has two answers)
                                                         A.   Long call
                                                         B.   Short call
                                                         C.   Long put
                                                         D.   Short put

                                                    ____      1. Which positions buy stock at exercise?

                                                    ____      2. Which positions sell stock at exercise?

                                                    ____      3. Which positions have rights?

                                                    ____      4. Which positions have obligations?

                                                    Quick Quiz answers can be found at the end of the session.




                             Q
                   QUICK QUIZ 9.B                   1.   Options are best described as
                                                         A.   derivatives
                                                         B.   substitutes
                                                         C.   swaps
                                                         D.   futures

                                                    2.   Your customer is long 10 ABC Jul 50 calls at 4.50. The contract gives him the
                                                         A.   right to buy stock
                                                         B.   right to sell stock
                                                         C.   obligation to buy stock
                                                         D.   obligation to sell stock

                                                    3.   Which term best describes the following situation: A customer has the right
                                                         to sell 100 shares of MNO at 60 any time between July and October.
                                                         A.   Long call
                                                         B.   Long put
                                                         C.   Short call
                                                         D.   Short put




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 378                                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:03:10 PM
                                                                               Session 9   Types and Characteristics of Derivative Securities      379




                   9. 1. 4       HEDGING WITH OPTIONS
                                     An investor with an established position in a stock can use options to hedge the posi-
                                 tion’s risks. Remember the term hedge, used in this context, means to protect. Normally,
                                 investors seek either to increase potential reward or to reduce potential loss.


                        9. 1. 4. 1   Long Stock and Long Puts
                                     What if the investor is concerned about a potential drop in the price of a stock? An
                                 investor who owns a stock can protect against a decline in market value by buying a
                                 put. Doing so allows the investor to sell the stock by exercising the put if the stock price
                                 declines before expiration, or selling the put at a profit, which will offset the decline in the
                                 stock price. This strategy is called portfolio insurance. Any profits in the stock are offset
                                 by the cost of the put premiums.




                             *
                             EXAMPLE                  A concerned (afraid) investor who owns 100 shares of stock with a current
                                                  market value of $50 purchases a 50 put at $2.50 for protection. If the stock goes
                                                  down to $40 per share, the investor has the ability to exercise the put, deliver the
                                                  stock, and receive $50 per share. The only cost for this protection is the premium
                                                  of $2.50 paid for the put. So, instead of losing $1,000 the loss was held to only
                                                  $250.




                               !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                       This strategy is also useful for managers of large portfolios, such as pen-
                                                  sion funds. If the portfolio consisted of large-cap stocks, a way to hedge against
                                                  a down market would be to purchase put options on an index that mirrors the
                                                  portfolio. In the case of large-cap stocks, that would generally be the S&P 500
                                                  index (more about that in Unit 4).


                        9. 1. 4. 2   Long Stock and Short Calls (Covered Call Writing)
                                     A covered call is a call written (sold) on a stock an investor owns. The covered call
                                 writer reduces the risk of his long stock position and generates income with the dollars
                                 received in premiums from selling the call. If the call is not exercised, the call writer keeps
                                 the premium. If the call is exercised, the covered call writer can deliver the stock owned.
                                 The covered call writer limits potential gain in exchange for the partial protection against
                                 a loss.

                                      Partial Protection. By writing a covered call and receiving the premium, an inves-
                                 tor, in effect, reduces the stock cost by the premium amount. If the stock price falls
                                 below the purchase price minus the premium received, the investor incurs a loss. Should
                                 the stock price rise dramatically, the stock will likely be called.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 379                                                                                                                  7/15/2016 2:03:10 PM
     380        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                             *
                         EXAMPLE                         An investor buys 100 shares of RST at 53 and writes 1 RST 55 call for 2.
                                                    The premium offsets the stock price by the $2 per share premium received. The
                                                    maximum gain equals $400: if the stock price rises above 55, the call will be exer-
                                                    cised; thus, the investor will sell the stock for a gain of $200, in addition to the
                                                    $200 premium received. The maximum loss is $5,100 should the stock become
                                                    worthless.




                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         A covered call provides partial protection that generates income but reduces
                                                    the stock’s potential gain. Buying puts provides nearly total loss protection that
                                                    costs money yet does not reduce the stock position’s potential gain. The benefit
                                                    of the covered call is that it does offer some hedging with no cost. In fact, the
                                                    investor actually receives income in the form of the premium.




                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                        Covered calls are considered the most conservative option position, while
                                                    uncovered calls carry the greatest risk.


                   9. 1. 4. 3         Short Stock and Long Calls
                                    An investor who sells a stock short sells borrowed stock, expecting the price to decline.
                                 The short seller must buy stock to repay the stock loan and hopes to do so at a lower price.
                                 A short seller can buy calls to protect against a price rise. If you are not familiar with the
                                 concept of short selling, it will be covered in Unit 4, Session 18.




                             *
                         EXAMPLE                         An investor sells short 100 shares of RST at 58 and buys an RST 60 call for 3.
                                                    The maximum loss is no longer unlimited as it would normally be for a short sale.
                                                    Instead, it is $500: no matter how high the stock price rises above $60, the inves-
                                                    tor will exercise the call to buy the stock for 60, incurring a $200 loss on the short
                                                    sale, in addition to the $300 paid for the call.




                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                        The majority of our students report a question on protecting against loss on a
                                                    short sale. As shown above, the best way to hedge is to buy a call option on the
                                                    stock underlying the short sale. This strategy offers full protection against loss.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 380                                                                                                                   7/15/2016 2:03:10 PM
                                                                          Session 9   Types and Characteristics of Derivative Securities      381




                   9. 2      NON-SECURITIES DERIVATIVES: FORWARD CONTRACTS
                             AND FUTURES


                   9. 2. 1    FORWARD CONTRACTS
                                   Forward contracts were developed as a means for commodity users and producers to
                              arrange for the exchange of the commodity at a time agreeable to both. Used in Europe
                              as early as the Middle Ages, typically for agricultural items (grains and so forth), forward
                              contracts evolved to eliminate the problem of finding a buyer or seller for an upcoming
                              cash market transaction. They also reduce the price risk inherent in changing supply and
                              demand relationships. How so? Because the seller knows exactly how much he will receive
                              for his product. Of course, he may wind up contracting to sell too cheaply if market prices
                              at delivery are much higher, but he is protected against receiving too little if the “harvest”
                              is plentiful and prices plunge.
                                   A forward contract is a direct commitment between one buyer and one seller. If the
                              position is held until the closing date, the forward seller is obligated to make delivery;
                              the forward buyer is obligated to take delivery. A forward contract is nonstandardized. Its
                              unique terms are defined solely by the contract parties, without third-party intervention.
                              This arrangement ensures a ready market or supply source because it presumes delivery.
                                   Because forward contracts are direct obligations between a specific buyer and seller
                              (the user and producer), they are not easily transferred and are considered illiquid (there
                              is no secondary market for forward contracts). Further, each party risks the credit and
                              trustworthiness of the other.
                                   The five components of a typical forward contract are:
                              ■■ quantity of the commodity;
                              ■■ quality of the commodity;
                              ■■ time of delivery;
                              ■■ place for delivery; and
                              ■■ price to be paid at delivery.


                   9. 2. 2    FUTURES
                                   In contrast to forward contracts, futures contracts are exchange-traded obligations.
                              The buyer or seller is contingently responsible for the full value of the contract. A buyer
                              goes long, or establishes a long position, and is obligated to take delivery of the commod-
                              ity on the future date specified. A seller goes short, or establishes a short position, and is
                              obligated to deliver the commodity on the specified future date. If the seller does not own
                              the commodity, his potential loss is unlimited because he has promised delivery and must
                              pay any price to acquire the commodity to deliver.
                                   As prices change, gains or losses are computed daily for all open futures positions on
                              the basis of each day’s settlement price. Gains are credited and losses are debited for each
                              open position, long or short. All accounts for firms and traders must be settled before the
                              opening of trading on the next trading day.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 381                                                                                                             7/15/2016 2:03:10 PM
     382        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                      Buyers and sellers benefit from organizations that act as clearinghouses for the con-
                                 tracts. Clearinghouses enable futures positions to be offset easily prior to delivery. To off-
                                 set, close, or liquidate a futures position before delivery, an investor must complete a trans-
                                 action opposite to the trade that initiated (opened) the futures position. The offsetting
                                 transaction must occur in the same commodity, for the same delivery month, and on the
                                 same exchange. About 98% of futures contracts are offset before delivery. Futures may be
                                 highly leveraged.
                                      If, at expiration, the settlement price is higher than the delivery price, a long position
                                 results in a profit while a short position loses. Conversely, if the settlement price is lower
                                 than the delivery price, shorts profit and longs lose.
                                      Typically, there are five standardized parts to an exchange-traded futures contract:
                                 ■■ Quantity of the commodity (e.g., 5,000 bushels of corn or 100 oz of gold)
                                 ■■ Quality of the commodity (specific grade or range of grades may be acceptable for
                                      delivery, including price adjustments for different deliverable grades)
                                 ■■ Delivery price (similar to exercise or strike price with options)
                                 ■■ Time for delivery (e.g., December wheat to be delivered)
                                 ■■ Location (approved for delivery)




                             *
                         EXAMPLE                         Forwards/futures are commonly used by producers (farmers) to hedge the
                                                    risk of the price of the commodity falling before it is able to be harvested and
                                                    sold. For example, if a farmer has planted soybeans and wishes to hedge against
                                                    a possible decline in the spot or cash price at delivery, the farmer could
                                                         A. buy forward contracts in a size equal to the amount of soybeans
                                                              expected to be harvested
                                                         B. buy futures contracts in a size equal to the amount of soybeans
                                                              expected to be harvested
                                                         C. sell futures or forward contracts in a size equal to the amount of the
                                                              soybeans expected to be harvested
                                                         D. sell the soybeans for cash today
                                                         Answer: C. Hedging a commodity yet to be harvested is done by selling a
                                                         forward or a futures contract on that commodity. In that way, the price is
                                                         guaranteed in the event of a market decline. However, the producer is giving
                                                         up any potential gain in the event the prices rise above the futures/forward
                                                         agreed upon one.



             9. 2. 3             REGULATION OF FUTURES AND FORWARDS
                                    Because these are not securities, they do not come under the jurisdiction of the
                                 SEC. The SRO that is in charge of regulating these markets and their participants is the
                                 Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC).




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 382                                                                                                              7/15/2016 2:03:10 PM
                                                                         Session 9   Types and Characteristics of Derivative Securities      383




                             Q
                        QUICK QUIZ 9.C   Matching (may have more than one answer)
                                              A.   Long call
                                              B.   Short call
                                              C.   Long put
                                              D.   Short put

                                         ____       1. Used to fully protect a long stock position

                                         ____       2. Used to fully protect a short stock position

                                         ____       3. Obligation to buy stock at the strike price if exercised

                                         ____       4. Right to sell stock at the strike price if exercised

                                         ____       5. Used to speculate on the upward movement of a stock’s price

                                         ____       6. Used to speculate on the downward movement of a stock’s price

                                         ____       7. If uncovered, subjects an investor to unlimited risk

                                         ____       8. The maximum loss is the premium

                                         ____       9.	Used to generate income when an investor owns the underlying
                                                        stock

                                         ____      10.	Requires investor to buy stock at a net cost reduced by the amount
                                                        of premium received, if exercised




                             Q
                        QUICK QUIZ 9.D   1.   The term derivative could be used to apply to any of the following EXCEPT
                                              A.   forward contracts
                                              B.   futures
                                              C.   options
                                              D.   REITs

                                         2.   Commonly traded on a regulated exchange would be any of the following
                                              EXCEPT
                                              A.   ETFs
                                              B.   forward contracts
                                              C.   futures
                                              D.   warrants

                                         3.   It would be improper to use the term derivative to describe
                                              A.   a call option
                                              B.   a closed-end investment company
                                              C.   a futures contract
                                              D.   a warrant




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 383                                                                                                            7/15/2016 2:03:10 PM
     384        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                                    4.   One of your clients sells 100 shares of XYZ stock short at $50 per share.
                                                         Although the client is quite bearish on the stock, she realizes that it is
                                                         possible that good news in the overall economy could cause a surge in XYZ’s
                                                         price. Which of the following would you recommend to best protect her
                                                         position?
                                                         A.   Buy an XYZ 50 put
                                                         B.   Buy an XYZ 50 call
                                                         C.   Sell an XYZ 50 put
                                                         D.   Sell an XYZ 50 call




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 384                                                                                                             7/15/2016 2:03:10 PM
                                                                               Session 9   Types and Characteristics of Derivative Securities       385




                        Q U I C K          Q U I Z          A N S W E R S

                   Quick Quiz 9.A                                              Quick Quiz 9.D

                      1. A and D.                                                 1. D.       REITs are valued based upon their own assets
                                                                                              rather than being derived from the value of
                      2. B and C.                                                             something else as the other choices are.
                      3. A and C.                                                 2. B.       A forward contract is a direct commitment
                                                                                              between one buyer and one seller. This
                      4. B and D.
                                                                                              makes each contract different, and lack of
                   Quick Quiz 9.B                                                             standardization makes exchange trading a
                                                                                              virtual impossibility.
                      1. A.   Options are a type of derivative because they
                              derive their values from the values of other        3. B.       The term derivative describes an asset whose
                              investment instruments.                                         value is based on something other than
                                                                                              itself. Investment companies have their own
                      2. A.   Buy; a call is the right to buy stock                           portfolios—they don’t derive their value
                                                                                              from some other asset. Options, futures
                      3. B.   The put buyer (long position) has the right                     and warrants all base their value on some
                              to sell stock to a put writer who is obligated                  underlying asset.
                              to buy that stock.
                                                                                  4. B.       A short-seller of stock will lose when the
                   Quick Quiz 9.C                                                             price of the stock rises, and there is no limit
                                                                                              to how high that can be. The best protection
                      1. C.                                                                   is to purchase the 50 call because that gives
                      2. A.                                                                   her the ability to buy the stock at the same
                                                                                              price she sold it for, thereby limiting the
                      3. D.                                                                   amount she can lose.

                      4. C.

                      5. A and D.

                      6. B and C.

                      7. B.

                      8. A and C.

                      9. B.

                    10. D.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 385                                                                                                                      7/15/2016 2:03:10 PM
Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 386   7/15/2016 2:03:10 PM
                             10
                             Alternative Investments
                             and Other Assets


                             I
                                 n the 1990s financial advisers began introducing their wealthy clients
                                 to alternative investments, now generally referred to as Alts. These
                                 included, among other products, hedge funds, private equity, and new,
                             highly sophisticated financial derivatives. One thing that all of these had in
                             common was that they were complex and not easy to understand, for both
                             the investor and the person recommending the investment.
                                  Although investing can be complex, standard investments are fairly
                             easy to comprehend. Even new investors understand that stocks have more
                             risk but hold out the chance of superior returns, while bonds generally have
                             less risk with correspondingly lower returns. All investors dream of scoring
                             a touchdown and not getting tackled for a loss. Alternative investments try
                             to do just that. Some are successful, but many are not. Suitability determina-
                             tions need to be made on a case-by-case basis considering each customer’s
                             objectives, circumstances, and sophistication. Securities professionals must
                             take special care in recommending these complex products to the sophis-
                             ticated customer and even more so to one with less financial acumen. The
                             Series 66 will have 1 question from this session, either on hedge funds or one
                             on direct participation programs (DPPs). ■




                                                                                                          387




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 387                                                                          7/15/2016 2:03:10 PM
            OBJECTIVES


                                 When you have completed this session, you should be able to:

                             ■■ identify the structure of a hedge fund;

                             ■■ recognize the unique compensation system of hedge funds;

                             ■■ assess the special suitability requirements for hedge fund investing;

                             ■■ explain the concept of “flow-through” as it applies to DPPs;

                             ■■ enumerate the advantages and disadvantages of DPPs;

                             ■■ understand the difference between passive and active real estate investing; and

                             ■■ identify the different types of commodities and precious metals that can be added to a
                                portfolio.




      388




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 388                                                                                        7/15/2016 2:03:11 PM
                                                                               Session 10   Alternative Investments and Other Assets      389




                   10. 1     HEDGE FUNDS
                                   These are a form of fund generally organized as a limited partnership with fewer than
                              100 investors that does not currently have to register with the SEC, although the portfolio
                              managers generally are required to register as investment advisers. There is pending leg-
                              islation that would require all hedge funds to register—check the Exam-tips & Contents
                              Updates and we’ll post an entry when and if such legislation passes. Such funds are free to
                              adopt far riskier investment policies than those permitted to open and closed-end funds,
                              such as arbitrage strategies and massive short positions during bearish markets. In addi-
                              tion, they may use leverage (borrowed money) and derivatives such as options and futures.
                              Hedge funds are considered to be in the asset class of “alternative” investments. Even
                              though these risky techniques are employed, the primary aim of most hedge funds is to
                              reduce volatility and risk while attempting to preserve capital and deliver positive returns
                              under all market conditions.
                                   Another important factor is that management fees tend to be much, much higher than
                              with other investments. Almost all hedge funds charge performance-based fees. The typi-
                              cal fee structure is known by the vernacular “2 & 20”—most funds take a 2% management
                              fee and 20% of any profits.
                                   Many hedge funds also require that investors maintain the investment for a minimum
                              length of time (e.g., one year) and, to that extent, they can be considered illiquid. These
                              requirements are known as lock-up provisions. This provision provides that, during a cer-
                              tain initial period, an investor may not make a withdrawal from the fund—the investor’s
                              capital is locked up. Generally recognized as one way the manager of the hedge fund port-
                              folio can have capital retained in the fund, it is also seen to be another factor adding to
                              the unique risk of hedge funds—in this case, shares being illiquid for that specified length
                              of time.
                                   Therefore, because of the higher risk, investment in these vehicles is limited to institu-
                              tional clients and wealthy individuals, known as accredited investors (defined in Unit 1).



                             !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                  Most hedge funds are organized as limited partnerships with the portfolio
                                              managers investing along with the investors. As they say in the industry, they
                                              have “skin in the game” so they have a greater motivation to succeed. The part-
                                              nership is the issuer of the ownership units.

                                  Hedge funds are indirectly available to ordinary investors through mutual funds called
                              funds of hedge funds. Because hedge funds themselves have limited liquidity, purchasing
                              a mutual fund of hedge funds offers not only diversification but also, in many, but not all
                              cases, the liquidity of the mutual fund.
                              ■■ In summation, why would you include hedge funds in your client’s portfolio?
                              ■■ The designed strategy of many hedge funds is to generate positive returns in both ris-
                                  ing and falling markets.
                              ■■ With a large variety of available investment styles, investors have a pleth­ora of choices
                                  to assist them in meeting their objectives.
                              ■■ As part of an asset allocation class, hedge funds may reduce overall port­folio risk and
                                  volatility and increase returns.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 389                                                                                                         7/15/2016 2:03:11 PM
     390        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                 ■■ A proper selection of hedge funds can create uncorrelated returns, adding a level of
                                    diversification. In doing so, the client would be incurring the following risks:
                                      —— Expenses can be quite high.
                                      —— The risky strategies could backfire leading to significant loss of capital.
                                      —— Liquidity risk: during the lock-up period, the investor is locked-in to the invest-
                                         ment. Furthermore, even after that period, there is no active secondary market
                                         for these unregistered securities. Finally, as is generally the case with limited part-
                                         nership investments, the sale of partnership interests may require approval of the
                                         general partner.



             10. 2           DIRECT PARTICIPATION PROGRAMS (DPPs)

                                     This is another class of “alternative” investment. Direct participation programs
                                 (DPPs), many of which are limited partnerships, allow the economic consequences of
                                 a business to flow through to investors. Unlike corporations, limited partnerships pay
                                 no dividends. Rather, they pass income, gains, losses, deductions, and credits directly to
                                 investors. Limited partnerships offer investors limited liability. Similar to a stockholder in
                                 a corporation, creditors cannot generally come directly to limited partners to collect on
                                 defaulted debt. In generally, the maximum potential loss to a limited partner is the amount
                                 already invested plus any funds committed for which have not yet been submitted.
                                     Units of ownership in a partnership are called interests, rather than shares.


             10. 2. 1 INVESTORS IN A LIMITED PARTNERSHIP

                                     A limited partnership must have at least one general partner and one limited partner.
                                 A certificate of limited partnership filed with the Secretary of State lists the status of each
                                 investor as a limited or general partner.


                   10. 2. 1. 1 General Partner (GP)
                                      The GPs are the active investors in a limited partnership and assume responsibility for
                                 all aspects of the partnership’s operations.
                                      Unlike LPs, who have limited liability, GPs assume unlimited liability and are there-
                                 fore personally liable for all partnership business losses and debts. A partnership’s creditors
                                 may seek repayment from the GPs and may go after their personal assets.


                   10. 2. 1. 2 Limited Partner (LP)
                                      LPs are passive investors with no management or day-to-day decision-making respon-
                                 sibilities; therefore, they usually are not held personally responsible for the partnership’s
                                 indebtedness. LPs may receive cash distributions and capital gains from partnerships. The




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 390                                                                                                         7/15/2016 2:03:11 PM
                                                                                       Session 10   Alternative Investments and Other Assets      391




                                     total yield of a partnership investment takes into account all potential rewards: tax deduc-
                                     tions, cash distributions, and capital gains.
                                         Because of the generally higher risk involved when investing in DPPs, an investor
                                     who buys a limited partnership unit must complete and sign a subscription agreement,
                                     which includes a statement of the investor’s net worth and annual income.


                   10. 2. 2 ANALYSIS AND EVALUATION OF DIRECT
                            PARTICIPATION PROGRAMS

                                         The total return of a partnership investment takes into account tax deductions, cash
                                     distributions, and capital gains. An investor should choose a limited partnership because:
                                     ■■ it is economically viable;
                                     ■■ the investor can make use of the potential tax benefits;
                                     ■■ the GP(s) has(have) demonstrated management ability and expertise in running simi-
                                         lar programs;
                                     ■■ the program’s objectives match the investor’s objectives and does so within a time
                                         frame that meets the investor’s needs; and
                                     ■■ the start-up costs and projected revenues are in line with the start-up costs and rev-
                                         enues of similar ventures.

                                          Promoters structure DPPs to meet various objectives. When a promoter’s tax stance
                                     is too aggressive or is without economic purpose in the view of the IRS, the program is
                                     considered an abusive tax shelter. If the IRS judges the program to be abusive, it disallows
                                     deductions; assesses back taxes, interest, and penalties; and, in some cases, charges the
                                     promoter with criminal intent to defraud.
                                          Investors should try to match their current and future objectives with a program’s
                                     stated objectives.




                               *
                              EXAMPLE                    A person seeking current taxable passive income should not invest in an oil
                                                     and gas exploratory drilling program. Why not? Because these programs drill
                                                     where oil (or gas) has never been found before (exploratory) and have a low
                                                     success rate. Even when the do “hit,” it may take years before any income is
                                                     generated.




                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                           Because the vast majority of these are privately placed, DPPs are considered
                                                     illiquid, and investors must commit money for a long period of time.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 391                                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:03:11 PM
     392        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




             10. 2. 3 ADVANTAGES AND DISADVANTAGES OF LIMITED
                      PARTNERSHIPS
                                    The DPP investor enjoys several advantages, including:
                                 ■■ an investment managed by others;
                                 ■■ flow-through of income and certain expenses; and
                                 ■■ limited liability—the most the investors can lose is the amount of their investment
                                    plus any funds committed for, but not yet remitted.

                                    The exam will probably give more attention to the following disadvantages.
                                 ■■ Liquidity Risk. The greatest disadvantage is lack of liquidity. Because the secondary
                                    market for DPPs is limited, investors who want to sell their interests frequently cannot
                                    locate buyers.
                                 ■■ Legislative Risk. When Congress changes tax laws, new rules can cause substan-
                                    tial damage to LPs, who may be locked into illiquid investments that lose previously
                                    assumed tax advantages.
                                 ■■ Risk of Audit. Statistics from the IRS indicate that reporting ownership of a DPP
                                    results in a significantly higher percentage of returns selected for audit.
                                 ■■ Depreciation Recapture. One of the tax benefits is the ability to depreciate most
                                    fixed assets, especially when that depreciation can be accelerated. The effect of the
                                    depreciation deduction is to lower the tax basis of the asset. If that asset is then sold for
                                    more than that basis, the excess is “recaptured” and subject to tax, possibly at ordinary
                                    income tax rates. You won’t need to know anything more than the concept.




                             Q
                 QUICK QUIZ 10.A                    True or False?

                                                    ____    1.	An investor who purchases a limited partnership is generally required
                                                                to provide a statement of net worth.

                                                    ____    2.	One of the greatest advantages of limited partnership investments is
                                                                that they are readily traded in the secondary market.

                                                    ____    3. DPP investors may deduct passive losses from ordinary income.

                                                    ____    4. The general partner is fully liable for all partnership losses and debts.

                                                    ____    5.	Limited partners have limited liability and take an active role in the
                                                                management of partnerships.

                                                    ____    6.	Tax deductions, capital gains, and cash distributions are potential
                                                                rewards for limited partnership investors.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 392                                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:03:11 PM
                                                                                Session 10   Alternative Investments and Other Assets      393




                                              7.   One of your clients wishes to invest in a hedge fund. You should explain
                                                   which of the following?
                                                   A. Shares of these funds are easy to redeem.
                                                   B. The fund can be expected to generate a profit whether the markets
                                                      trend up or trend down.
                                                   C. These funds purchase a large amount of preferred stock.
                                                   D. Expenses for these funds tend to be higher than those for traditional
                                                      mutual funds.

                                              8.   The prospectus for a fund states that the minimum initial investment is
                                                   $500,000. This is most likely what type of fund?
                                                   A.   Balanced
                                                   B.   Hedge
                                                   C.   Small-cap growth
                                                   D.   Specialized

                                              Quick Quiz answers can be found at the end of the session.




                   10. 3     INVESTMENT REAL ESTATE

                                  We have already discussed two methods of passive real estate investing. That is, invest-
                              ing in real estate where all of the work is done for the investor. That is the case with the
                              REIT and the real estate limited partnership investment (DPP). Investing in real estate,
                              whether it be single family homes to flip or to rent or commercial property, involves work
                              on the part of the investor. Whether it is collection of rents, finding tenants, or doing
                              repairs, the investor is responsible for doing the work (or hiring someone to do it).

                                 Real estate investing offers several benefits.
                              ■■ Historically, real estate has been a hedge against inflation.
                              ■■ It provides rental income, a portion of which may be tax-advantaged due to deprecia-
                                 tion and interest deductions.
                              ■■ It offers high leverage. Real estate loans generally require a relatively small down pay-
                                 ment.
                              ■■ Investing real estate is not generally correlated with stock market returns (more about
                                 correlation in the next Unit).

                                 Investors should also be aware of some of the risks.
                              ■■ In general, a lack of liquidity (certainly when compared to stocks, bonds, or mutual
                                 funds) is a risk.
                              ■■ If purchased for rental, each month that the property is not rented is money lost.
                              ■■ High leverage can work against the investor in a down market.
                              ■■ The individual just might not have the skills necessary to manage the property and
                                 hiring someone else could eliminate or greatly reduce the profits.

                                 Any good asset allocation program should have real estate, but, other than owning
                              your own home, at least for most investors, REITs are probably the preferred option.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 393                                                                                                          7/15/2016 2:03:12 PM
     394        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




             10. 4           COMMODITIES, INCLUDING PRECIOUS METALS

                                      In the previous session, we discussed futures. They are one of the methods by which
                                 individual investors can invest directly in commodities (forwards are used primarily by pro-
                                 ducers and industrial consumers). One can also invest indirectly through ETPs (exchange
                                 traded products, such as ETFs that follow a commodity index) or mutual funds that invest
                                 in commodity-related businesses. For instance, an oil and gas fund would own stocks issued
                                 by companies involved in energy exploration, refining, storage, and distribution.
                                      Historically, most commodity trading was of agricultural products (we were an agrarian
                                 society), and these commodities, such as corn, wheat, oats and soybeans, are still actively
                                 traded. There are animal-based commodities, such as beef, pork, and eggs. Today, the most
                                 commonly traded commodity is crude oil with coffee often claimed to be in second place.
                                 And, of course, for all of you Eddie Murphy fans (remember the movie Trading Places),
                                 there are orange juice futures.
                                      Active trading also takes place in industrial metals, such as aluminum, nickel, copper,
                                 and lead. Speaking of metals, it is hard to turn on the TV today without seeing a commer-
                                 cial for gold or silver investments. Whether you agree or not with the ads, for millennia,
                                 individuals and governments have stored their wealth in precious metals.


             10. 4. 1 BENEFITS OF INVESTING IN COMMODITIES
                                 ■■ Potential hedge against inflation. One of the reasons for inflation is frequently an
                                    increase in the cost of basic commodities. During those periods, investors in those
                                    commodities should keep pace with or possibly exceed the inflation rate. However,
                                    investors should note that commodities can be much more volatile than other types
                                    of investments.
                                 ■■ Diversification. Commodities are generally not correlated with stock market returns.
                                    This negative correlation (see the next Unit) offers diversification of returns (com-
                                    modities up when stocks are down and the reverse) and can have the effect of reducing
                                    overall portfolio volatility. However, just as with any other assets, diversification does
                                    not ensure a profit or guarantee against loss.
                                 ■■ Potential returns. As with any other investment, those who buy low and sell high
                                    will make money (or the reverse if you take a short position). Commodity prices are
                                    subject to supply and demand on a global basis and can provide handsome returns to
                                    those who predict future shortages.


             10. 4. 2 RISKS OF COMMODITY INVESTING
                                 ■■ Principal Risk. Commodity prices can be extremely volatile and the commodities
                                    industry can be significantly affected by world events, import controls, worldwide com-
                                    petition, government regulations, and economic conditions, all of which can have an
                                    impact on commodity prices. Because of the leverage involved in futures, investors
                                    can easily lose their entire investment virtually overnight.
                                 ■■ Volatility. Not only are the prices of the actual commodity volatile, but those inves-
                                    tors seeking to lower their risk by investing in commodity mutual funds or ETFs will




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 394                                                                                                       7/15/2016 2:03:12 PM
                                                                                   Session 10   Alternative Investments and Other Assets      395




                                   find that those vehicles reflect the volatility of the underlying commodity or index as
                                   well. This is especially so when the ETF or fund uses options or other derivatives.
                               ■■ Exposure to Foreign Markets. In session 4, we discussed some of the risks of investing
                                  in foreign securities. Because commodities represent a global investment, in addition
                                  to the risks of the commodities themselves, there is also the vast array or risks that one
                                  faces when investing in foreign markets. Particularly prevalent here would be currency
                                  risk as well as the risks caused by political, economic, and currency instability.
                               ■■ High Cost. This risk applies primarily to investing in the actual precious metal. For
                                  the small to average investor, the spread between what you pay for the bullion (or
                                  coins) and what you can resell for is significantly higher than the markup or commis-
                                  sions on stock or futures contracts.
                               ■■ Lack of Income. No matter how long you hold gold or silver, you will never receive a
                                  dividend or an interest check. In fact, with any commodity, there is no income, only
                                  the chance for capital gains.




                             Q
                       QUICK QUIZ 10.B         1.   Among the reasons for investors to consider investing in real estate would be
                                                    all of the following EXCEPT
                                                    A.   the ability to increase returns through leverage
                                                    B.   a high correlation with stock market returns
                                                    C.   possible tax advantages
                                                    D.   potential appreciation

                                               2.   An investor is reading a report that industrial demand for copper is expected
                                                    to double in the next 5 years. This might lead the investor to
                                                    A.   buy corn futures
                                                    B.   sell copper futures
                                                    C.   invest in several copper mining companies
                                                    D.   modify the investor’s portfolio to take a larger cash position




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 395                                                                                                             7/15/2016 2:03:12 PM
       396         Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




             Q U I C K               Q U I Z           A N S W E R S

        Quick Quiz 10.A.                                                       7. D.   Hedge funds typically use risky strategies to
                                                                                       generate profit regardless of market direction,
           1. T.       Because of the more stringent suitability                       but there is no guarantee that the objective
                       requirements for these products, an investor                    will be realized. Redemption may be difficult
                       who purchases a limited partnership is                          with these funds, and the steps management
                       generally required to provide a statement of                    must take to try to generate profits incur
                       net worth.                                                      higher expenses than traditional mutual
                                                                                       funds.
           2. F.       Limited partnerships typically have a very
                       limited secondary market. They are generally            8. B.   One of the characteristics of hedge funds is a
                       not liquid.                                                     high minimum investment requirement.
           3. F.       Passive losses can only offset passive income.        Quick Quiz 10.B
           4. T.       The general partner is fully liable for all             1. B.   One of the investment advantages of real
                       partnership losses and debts.                                   estate is that returns are generally negatively
                                                                                       correlated with those of the stock market.
           5. F.       To maintain limited liability, limited partners
                       must not be involved in the day-to-day                  2. C.   If the demand for copper increases, those
                       management of the partnershp.                                   companies producing the commodity should
                                                                                       find their stock prices increase nicely. Selling
           6. T.       Tax deductions, capital gains, and cash
                                                                                       copper futures would be when one expects
                       distributions are potential rewards for limited
                                                                                       the demand (and, therefore, prices) to fall.
                       partnership investors.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 396                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:03:12 PM
                                                                                                                    Unit 2 Unit Test       397




                        U N I T         T E S T

                     1. Holders of each of the following are creditors EX-         6. According to Standard and Poor’s rating system,
                        CEPT investors owning                                         the 4 highest grades of bonds (from best to lowest
                        A. preferred stock                                            grade) are
                        B. corporate bonds                                            A. Aaa; Aa; A; Baa
                        C. municipal bonds                                            B. A; Aa; Aaa; B
                        D. government bonds                                           C. B; A; AA; AAA
                                                                                      D. AAA; AA; A; BBB
                     2. Among the advantages of including preferred
                        stock in an investor’s portfolio are                       7. Municipal bonds are often called tax-exempts.
                         I. dividends must be paid before any distribution            This refers to the exemption of their income from
                            to common stockholders                                    A. state, federal, and inheritance taxes
                        II. a rate of return that is likely to keep pace with         B. state income taxes
                            inflation                                                 C. federal income taxes
                       III. the opportunity for increased income if the               D. inheritance taxes
                            issuer’s profits increase
                       IV. a fixed rate of return that is likely higher than       8. The current yield on a bond with a coupon rate of
                            that for a debt security offered by the same              5.5% selling at 110 is
                            issuer                                                    A. 2%
                        A. I and II                                                   B. 5%
                        B. I and IV                                                   C. 5.5%
                        C. II and III                                                 D. 6%
                        D. III and IV
                                                                                   9. A bond is selling at a premium over par value.
                     3. In general, the type of security offering the great­est       Therefore, its
                        degree of safety to an investor is                            A. current yield is less than its nominal yield
                        A. common stock                                               B. nominal yield is less than its current yield
                        B. debentures                                                 C. yield to maturity is greater than its current
                        C. mortgage bonds                                                yield
                        D. preferred stock                                            D. none of the above

                     4. A debenture is issued based on                            10. All of the following are true of government agency
                        A. the general credit of the corporation                      bonds EXCEPT
                        B. a pledge of real estate                                    A. they are considered relatively safe investments
                        C. a pledge of equipment                                      B. they are direct obligations of the U.S.
                        D. the ability to levy taxes                                      government
                                                                                      C. they trade openly
                     5. When Treasury bills are issued, they are quoted at            D. older ones have coupons attached, new ones
                        A. a premium over par                                             are book entry
                        B. 100% of the par value
                        C. par value with interest coupons attached               11. All of the following are true about GNMAs EX-
                        D. a discount from principal with no coupons                  CEPT
                           attached                                                   A. they are backed by the U.S. government
                                                                                      B. they provide funds for residential mortgages
                                                                                      C. interest on GNMAs is not exempt from state
                                                                                          and local taxes
                                                                                      D. interest is paid semiannually




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 397                                                                                                             7/15/2016 2:03:12 PM
        398        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition



        12. Which of the following statements regarding de-                  15. One way in which closed-end management invest-
            rivative securities is NOT true?                                     ment companies differ from open-end investment
            A. Derivative securities can be sold on listed                       management companies is that
                exchanges or in the over-the-counter market.                     A. they trade at a price independent of their net
            B. An option contract is a derivative security                          asset value
                because it has no value independent of the                       B. their portfolio may contain common stock,
                value of an underlying security.                                    preferred stock and debt securities
            C. An option contract’s price fluctuates                             C. they are federal covered securities
                in relationship to the time remaining                            D. they were in existence prior to 1940
                to expiration as well as with the price
                movement of the underlying security.                         16. Insurance companies selling annuities offer a
            D. An owner of a put has the obligation to                           variety of purchase options to owners. Which of
                purchase securities at a designated price                        the following definitions regarding these annuity
                (the strike price) before a specified date (the                  options is NOT true?
                expiration date).                                                A. Accumulation annuity—an annuity that
                                                                                     allows the investor to accumulate funds in
        13. A client has invested $25,000 into a variable                            a separate account before investment in an
            annuity which has grown to $150,000 over the                             annuity
            accumulation period. At age 60, the account is                       B. Single premium deferred annuity—an
            liquidated. The tax treatment of the withdrawal                          annuity with a lump-sum investment, with
            would be                                                                 payment of benefits deferred until the
            A. capital gains tax on $125,000.                                        annuitant elects to receive them
            B. ordinary income tax on $125,000.                                  C. Periodic payment deferred annuity—allows a
            C. ordinary income tax on $125,000 with a 10%                            person to make periodic payments over time.
                tax penalty.                                                         The contract holder can invest money on a
            D. partly ordinary income and partly capital gains                       monthly, quarterly, or annual basis
                depending on the length of time the variable                     D. Immediate annuity—allows an investor
                annuity was in force.                                                to deposit a lump sum with the insurance
                                                                                     company. Payout of the annuitant’s benefits
        14. An owner of an annuitized annuity can do all of                          starts immediately, usually within 60 days
            the following EXCEPT
            A. receive the benefits on a monthly basis until                 17. With an annuity
                the time of death                                                 I. taxes on earned dividends, interest,
            B. receive the benefits for life with a certain                          and capital gains are paid annually, until the
                minimum period of time guaranteed                                    owner withdraws money from the contract
            C. have a joint life with last survivor clause with                  II. random withdrawals are handled under LIFO
                payments paid until the death of the last                            tax rules
                survivor                                                        III. money invested in a nonqualified annuity
            D. receive monthly payment for a defined period                          represents the investor’s cost basis
                and then 2 years later change the contract to                   IV. upon withdrawal, the amount exceeding
                payment for life                                                     the investor’s cost basis is taxed as ordinary
                                                                                     income
                                                                                 A. I only
                                                                                 B. I, II and IV
                                                                                 C. II, III and IV
                                                                                 D. IV only




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 398                                                                                                            7/15/2016 2:03:12 PM
                                                                                                             Unit 2 Unit Test       399



                   18. All of the following are advantages of universal     24. When comparing mutual funds and variable an-
                       life insurance EXCEPT                                    nuities, it would be correct to state that
                       A. ability to adjust the amount of premium               A. both offer tax-deferred growth of earnings
                            payments                                            B. both require the salesperson possess a
                       B. the policy is guaranteed never to lapse                   securities and an insurance license
                       C. ability to change death benefit amount                C. the surrender charges on a mutual fund are
                       D. when the cash value is sufficient, no premium             usually higher than on a variable annuity
                            payment is required                                 D. the expense ratio of the variable annuity
                                                                                    is usually higher than that of a comparable
                   19. Which of the following is indicative of the                  mutual fund
                       primary difference between variable life insurance
                       and straight whole life insurance?                   25. A European style option differs from an American
                       A. Amount of insurance that can be issued                style option primarily in that it
                       B. Cost of the insurance                                 A. derives its value from some underlying asset
                       C. Tax treatment of the death proceeds                   B. can only be exercised on its expiration date
                       D. Way in which the cash values are invested             C. is primarily used for options on foreign
                                                                                     securities
                   20. Which of the following securities trade on regu-         D. is generally offered with a limited number of
                       lated stock exchanges with their prices being de-             expiration dates.
                       termined by supply and demand?
                        I. Closed-end investment companies                  26. The term derivative would not include
                       II. Exchange-traded funds                                A. futures on commodities
                      III. Face amount certificate companies                    B. interest rate swaps
                      IV. Mutual funds                                          C. REITs
                        A. I and II                                             D. LEAPS
                        B. I and III
                        C. II and III                                       27. The LIBOR rate is established on a daily basis in
                        D. III and IV                                           A. Liberia
                                                                                B. Libya
                   21. Among the purposes of purchasing derivatives             C. London
                       would be all of the following EXCEPT                     D. New York
                       A. hedging
                       B. income                                            28. On July 15, 2013, your client purchased a vari-
                       C. profits                                               able life insurance policy with a death benefit of
                       D. speculation                                           $500,000. The November 2015 statement showed
                                                                                a cash value of $30,000. If the client wanted to
                   22. The term derivative would apply to which of the          borrow as much as possible, the insurance com-
                       following?                                               pany would have to allow a loan of at least
                       A. DPPs                                                  A. $0
                       B. REITs                                                 B. $15,000
                       C. Warrants                                              C. $22,500
                       D. UITs                                                  D. $27,000

                   23. A change in interest rates will have the most im-    29. Which type of investment company is most often
                       mediate impact upon                                      organized as a limited partnership?
                       A. common stock                                          A. Face-amount certificate company
                       B. ETFs                                                  B. Exchange traded fund
                       C. preferred stock                                       C. Hedge fund
                       D. REITs                                                 D. Unit investment trust




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 399                                                                                                      7/15/2016 2:03:12 PM
        400        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition



        30. The Wall Street pundits are predicting a substan-
            tial increase in interest rates. If they are correct,
            which of the following bonds would be most sensi-
            tive to that increase?
            A. 5s of 2035
            B. 5s of 2040
            C. 5s of 2045
            D. 4s of 2020




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 400                                                   7/15/2016 2:03:12 PM
                                                                                                      Unit 2 Answers and Rationales       401




                          A N S W E R S              A N D        R A T I O N A L E S

                     1. A. Remember all stockholders (even preferred             8.   B. The current yield of any security, equity, or
                           stockholders) are owners of a corporation,                    debt is always the income return (dividend
                           not creditors.                                                or interest) divided by the current market
                                                                                         price. In this case, it is
                     2.      B. Preferred stock carries a fixed dividend that
                                                                                                        5.5
                                must be paid before any distribution to                                     = 5%
                                common stockholders—hence the name                                      110
                                preferred. However, unlike the interest on
                                a debt security, there is no obligation to       9. A. Any bond selling at a premium will yield
                                pay the dividend. Therefore, the yield on              less than the coupon rate (nominal yield).
                                a company’s preferred stock is invariably              Conversely, of course, a bond trading
                                higher than that on its debt issues.                   at a dis­count will certainly yield more.
                                Disadvantages of owning preferred stock                Remember, there is an inverse relationship
                                are that the fixed return may not keep up              between bond prices and bond yields. See
                                with inflation and, regardless of corporate            the previous question for an example of a
                                earnings, the dividend will not change, so             bond selling at a premium.
                                there is no hope for increased income.
                                                                                10.   B. The only government agency that is a
                     3. C. Debt securities, because they are an                          direct obligation of the U.S. government is
                           obligation of the issuer, are generally                       the Ginnie Mae security. All of the others
                           considered safer than equity securities. The                  are moral obligations.
                           only one of these debt obligations with
                           pledged assets as security for the loan is the       11. D. GMNAs make payment monthly, unlike
                           mortgage bond.                                              virtu­ally all other debt securities, which
                                                                                       make pay­ments semiannually.
                     4. A. There are no pledged assets behind a
                           debenture, merely the credit standing of the         12. D. An owner of a put has the right, not the
                           corporation. It is a corporate IOU.                         obligation, to sell, not purchase, a security
                                                                                       at a designated price (the strike price)
                     5. D. Treasury bills are always issued at a                       before a specified date (the expiration
                           discount, they pay no interest. The                         date).
                           investor profits by receiving back par
                           value and makes the differ­ence between              13. B. Any increase in the value of a variable
                           the discounted purchase price and the par                   annuity is taxed as ordinary income, never
                           received at maturity. All government bonds                  capital gain. In this case, there is no 10%
                           are now book entry; there has not been                      penalty tax because the client is over 59½
                           a Treasury note or bond issued since July                   years old.
                           1986 with interest coupons attached.

                     6. D. Choice A would be correct if the question
                           referred to Moody’s.

                     7. C. Although municipal bonds are sometimes
                           exempt from state income tax (if issued in
                           the state of residence of the taxpayer), all
                           references to tax exemption refer to their
                           exemption from fed­eral income taxes.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 401                                                                                                            7/15/2016 2:03:13 PM
        402        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition



        14. D. The contract is annuitized when the                           18.   B. A universal life policy may lapse if the
               investor converts from the accumulation                                accumulation fund drops below a specified
               (pay-in) stage to the distribution (payout)                            level and an additional premium is not
               stage. Once a payout option is selected, it                            paid.
               cannot be changed. An annuity owner can
               elect to receive the benefits on a monthly                    19. D. Variable life insurance allows the
               basis until the time of death. An annuity                            policyowner to decide how the cash value is
               owner can elect to receive the benefits for                          invested through a number of subaccounts.
               life with a certain minimum period of time
               guaranteed. In addition, an annuity owner                     20. A. Both closed-end funds and exchange-traded
               can have a joint life with last survivor                             funds (ETFs) trade on stock exchanges with
               clause with payouts made until the death                             their prices being determined by supply and
               of the last survivor.                                                demand just like any other stock.

        15      A. Unlike open-end companies (mutual                         21.   B. Purchase of a derivative, whether an
                   funds) where the price is based on the net                         option, a forward, or futures contract, never
                   asset value (NAV), closed-end companies                            generates income. Selling one does, but the
                   trade at a market price based on supply                            question refers to a purchaser.
                   and demand which could be above, below
                   or the same as the NAV. Both are federal                  22. C     A derivative has its value based upon some
                   covered, both can have equity and debt in                           underlying asset. The value of a warrant
                   their portfolios (although only closed-end                          is based on the value of the security into
                   companies can issue senior securities) and                          which it is exchangeable.
                   both were in existence prior to passage of
                   the Investment Company Act of 1940.                       23. C. Interest rate risk is predominately found
                                                                                    with fixed income investments. Preferred
        16. A. Accumulation does not refer to a purchase                            stock, with its fixed dividends, is most likely
               option. The pay-in period for an annuity is                          to be immediately impacted by changes in
               known as the accumulation stage. A single                            the cost of money. Of course, you might
               premium deferred annuity is an annuity                               challenge this answer, claiming that if the
               with a lump-sum investment, with payment                             ETF was based on a bond index, it could
               of benefits deferred until the annuitant                             certainly be a correct choice. But, unless
               elects to receive them. Periodic payment                             specified, assume all ETFs are equity based.
               deferred annuities allow a person to make                            And, in the same vein, REITs, especially
               periodic payments over time. Immediate                               those doing mortgages, would be impacted
               annuities allow an investor to deposit a                             by changes to interest rates, but it is
               lump sum with the insurance company                                  unlikely that the effects would show as
               payout of the annuitant’s benefits starting                          quickly as in the price of a preferred stock.
               immediately, usually within 60 days.
                                                                             24. D. It is generally correct to state that variable
        17. C. Money randomly withdrawn (not                                        annuities offer a way to accumulate
               annuitized) is handled under LIFO tax                                funds on a tax-deferred basis, although
               rules; money invested in an annuity                                  generally with operating expenses
               represents the investor’s cost basis; and                            somewhat higher than mutual funds with
               on withdrawal, the amount exceeding the                              the same investment objective. There is
               investor’s cost basis is taxed as ordinary                           no tax-deferral with mutual funds and no
               income. Taxes on earned dividends,                                   insurance license is required to sell them.
               interest, and capital gains are not paid                             Only Class B and C shares have redemption
               annually. They are deferred and paid later,                          fees, a form of surrender charge, and they
               when the owner withdraws money from the                              are invariable lower than annuity surrender
               contract.                                                            charges.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 402                                                                                                            7/15/2016 2:03:13 PM
                                                                                                    Unit 2 Answers and Rationales       403



                   25.       B. The single most significant (and tested)       28. A. Until a variable life policy is in force for a
                                difference between these two styles is that           minimum of three years (this one is a bit
                                an American style option can be exercised             less than 2½ years), there is no requirement
                                anytime while a European style option can             to make the loan provision available.
                                only be exercised at expiration. They both            Once the three-year mark is reached, that
                                derive their value from some underlying               minimum becomes 75% of the computed
                                asset which is why they are derivative                cash value.
                                securities. European style has nothing to do
                                with the domicile of the underlying asset      29. C. For various legal reasons, mostly related
                                behind the option and these are offered               to the need to avoid registration with the
                                with a similar range of expiration dates as           SEC, hedge funds are generally structured
                                are American style options.                           as limited partnership entities with the
                                                                                      organizers invariably sinking their own
                   26. C. A derivative is something which derives its                 funds into a few units.
                          value from something else. REITs represent
                          direct investment into real estate; the asset        30. C. The bond with the longest duration will
                          purchase is the actual asset. Never heard of                have the greatest sensitivity to change in
                          interest rate swaps? Well, on the real exam,                interest rates. We examine two factors: the
                          there will occasionally be an answer choice                 coupon rate and the length to maturity.
                          that you’ve never heard of, but it should                   When the coupon rates are the same, as
                          not affect your ability to choose the correct               they are for three of these bonds, the one
                          one.                                                        with the maturity date farthest into the
                                                                                      future will have the longest duration. Even
                   27. C. LIBOR is the London Interbank Offered                       though the 4% coupon is lower than the
                          Rate (technically the ICE-LIBOR now)                        others, the maturity date is so much closer
                          and, as shown, the L stands for London,                     that it actually has the shortest duration
                          U.K.                                                        (least sensitivity to change) of this group.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 403                                                                                                          7/15/2016 2:03:13 PM
Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 404   7/15/2016 2:03:13 PM
                             Unit 3
                             Economic Factors and Business
                             Information

                                        This unit consists of four sessions:
                                        Session 11 Basic Economics
                                        Session 12 Methods of Quantitative Analysis
                                        Session 13 Types of Risk
                                        In total there will be 5 questions on this material, representing 5% of the
                                    Series 66 Exam.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 405                                                                                  7/15/2016 2:03:13 PM
                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                   Although there are only five questions from this Unit on the exam, the range
                                              from which they are drawn is extremely wide. For example, NASAA states that there
                                              will be questions on 3 different types of time value of money concepts; 9 different
                                              kinds of descriptive statistics; and 5 different financial ratios. As a result, we have to
                                              cover all of the possibilities in order for you to maximize your score.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 406                                                                                                        7/15/2016 2:03:13 PM
                             11
                             Basic Economics


                             I
                                 nvestment decisions are made within the context of the general eco-
                                 nomic climate and are based on the specific merits of the selected invest-
                                 ments. This session will deal with basic economic concepts, such as the
                             business cycle, yield curves, economic indicators and measuring inflation.
                                  The session will then continue with a look at the numbers. There is
                             an old saying popular with sports fans, “You can’t tell the players without a
                             scorecard.” In that same vein, you can’t tell very much about a corporation
                             without examining its financial statements. The conclusion of the session
                             deals with the basics of financial statement analysis.
                                  The Series 66 exam will include approximately 1 question on the mate-
                             rial presented in this session. ■




                                                                                                          407




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 407                                                                          7/15/2016 2:03:13 PM
            OBJECTIVES


                                 When you have completed this session, you should be able to:

                             ■■ identify fundamental economic principles and the four stages of the business cycle;

                             ■■ differentiate between inflation and deflation;

                             ■■ list the three types of yield curves;

                             ■■ compute various ratios that are used to measure corporate performance; and

                             ■■ distinguish between the different forms used in SEC reporting.




      408




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 408                                                                                       7/15/2016 2:03:13 PM
                                                                                                             Session 11   Basic Economics      409




                   11. 1         BASIC ECONOMICS
                                         Economics is the social science concerned chiefly with the description and analysis of
                                     production, distribution, and consumption of goods and services.



                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                           Economics is about how people choose. From the most important to the
                                                     most mundane, any decision is economic in nature. Every choice made in terms
                                                     of the decision maker’s utility can be thought of as satisfaction. In every choice
                                                     we make, we try to find the combination of cost and benefit that maximizes our
                                                     utility (satisfaction).

                                         There are two major branches of economics: microeconomics and macro-economics.
                                     Microeconomics focuses on the economic behavior of narrowly defined units, such as
                                     households or business firms.
                                         Macroeconomics is the branch of economics that analyzes aggregates, such as the rate
                                     of growth in national economic output as measured by the gross domestic product (GDP),
                                     the rate of inflation, and unemployment. Though the two areas overlap in many ways, the
                                     Series 66 exam focuses primarily on macroeconomic concepts.


                   11. 1. 1 IMPORTANT TERMS AND CONCEPTS IN ECONOMICS

                        11. 1. 1. 1 Business Cycles
                                         Business cycles reflect fluctuations in economic activity as measured by the level of
                                     activity in such macroeconomic variables as the rate of unemployment and the GDP.
                                     Periods of economic expansion have been followed by periods of contraction in a pattern
                                     called the business cycle. Business cycles go through four stages:
                                     ■■ Expansion
                                     ■■ Peak
                                     ■■ Contraction
                                     ■■ Trough

                                         Expansion. Expansion is characterized by increasing business activity—in sales,
                                     manufacturing, and wages—throughout the economy. When GDP increases rapidly and
                                     businesses reach their productive capacity, the nation’s economy cannot expand further.
                                     At this point, the economy is said to have reached its peak. When business activity de-
                                     clines from its peak, the economy is contracting.
                                         Economists call mild short-term contractions recessions. Longer, more severe con-
                                     tractions are depressions. When business activity stops declining and levels off, the cycle
                                     makes a trough.
                                         According to the U.S. Department of Commerce, the economy is in a recession when
                                     a decline in real output of goods and services—the GDP—continues for two or more con-
                                     secutive quarters. It defines a depression as a decrease in GDP for six consecutive quarters.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 409                                                                                                              7/15/2016 2:03:14 PM
     410        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                                   Real GDP




                                                                                Business                   Average
                                                                                 Peak



                                                                                     Expansion


                                                                  Contraction
                                                                  (recession)        Recessionary Trough
                                                                                                               Time



                                 11. 1. 1. 1. 1 The Four Stages of the Business Cycle
                                     To determine the economy’s overall direction, economists consider many trends in
                                 busi­ness activity. Expansions are characterized by increasing consumer demand for goods
                                 and services, possibly leading to an:
                                 ■■ increasing rate of inflation; and
                                 ■■ increasing industrial production, generally leading to
                                      —— a decreasing unemployment rate as hiring accelerates,
                                      —— falling inventories,
                                      —— rising stock markets,
                                      —— rising property values, and
                                      —— increasing GDP.

                                     Analysts will frequently make investment decisions based upon where we are in the
                                 business cycle. Certain industries outperform while others underperform at different points
                                 in the cycle. Following are several examples.

                                 11. 1. 1. 1. 2 Cyclical Industries
                                     Cyclical industries are highly sensitive to business cycles and inflation trends. Most
                                 cyclical industries produce durable goods, such as heavy machinery and automobiles, as
                                 well as raw materials, such as steel.

                                 11. 1. 1. 1. 3 Growth Industries
                                     Most industries pass through four phases during their existence: introduction, growth,
                                 maturity, and decline. An industry is considered in its growth phase if the industry is grow-
                                 ing faster than the economy as a whole because of technological changes, new products,
                                 or changing consumer tastes. Social media and bioengineering are examples of current
                                 growth industries. Because many growth companies retain nearly all of their earnings to
                                 finance their business expansion, growth stocks usually pay little or no dividends.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 410                                                                                                       7/15/2016 2:03:14 PM
                                                                                                                Session 11   Basic Economics      411




                                     11. 1. 1. 1. 4 Defensive Industries
                                         Defensive industries are least affected by normal business cycles. Companies in
                                     defensive industries generally produce nondurable consumer goods, such as food, phar-
                                     maceuticals, tobacco, and energy. Public consumption of such goods remains fairly steady
                                     throughout the business cycle.

                                     11. 1. 1. 1. 5 Special Situation Stocks
                                         Special situation stocks are stocks of a company with unusual profit potential result-
                                     ing from nonrecurring circumstances, such as new management, the discovery of a valu-
                                     able natural resource on corporate property, or the introduction of a new product. In most
                                     cases, the phase of the business cycle is irrelevant to this company’s near-term prospects.


                        11. 1. 1. 2 Inflation
                                         Inflation is a general increase in prices as measured by an index such as the consumer
                                     price index (CPI). The CPI reflects the average cost of goods and services (a market bas-
                                     ket) purchased by consumers, compared with those same goods and services purchased dur-
                                     ing a base period, currently 1982-84. CPI statistics are published monthly by the Bureau of
                                     Labor Statistics (BLS). Mild inflation can encourage economic growth because gradually
                                     increasing prices tend to stimulate business investments. High inflation reduces a dollar’s
                                     buying power, which can reduce demand for goods and services. A term that may appear
                                     on your exam is “inflation inertia.” This is the concept that the rate of inflation does not
                                     immediately react to unexpected changes in economic conditions. Rather, it lags behind,
                                     sometimes for several quarters, before there is an effect.
                                         Sometimes the term used is the inertial rate of inflation or inertial inflation. This is the
                                     persistent rate of inflation that continues at the same rate until an economic shock leads
                                     to a change. One of the results of this is that prices rarely go down. After all, what com-
                                     pany wants to lower the prices of its goods or services and how many workers are willing to
                                     accept wage cuts? So, prices general continue to advance, hopefully at a slow rate.



                                  !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                          Because inflation is a global issue, not just confined to the United States and
                                                      our dollar, a universal definition would be “a decrease in the value of the mon-
                                                      etary unit.”




                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                            Increasing inflation drives interest rates higher (we’ll talk more about that in
                                                      just a bit, and then again in Unit 4 as we discuss the “real” rate of return), and
                                                      that decreases the prices of outstanding bonds. Conversely, a reduction in the
                                                      inflation rate would have the opposite effect; bond yields decline and bond prices
                                                      rise.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 411                                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:03:14 PM
     412        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                   11. 1. 1. 3 Deflation
                                     Though rare, deflation is a general decline in prices. Deflation usually occurs during
                                 severe recessions when unemployment is on the rise.

                                 11. 1. 1. 3. 1 Causes of Deflation
                                     Deflation is caused by conditions opposite those that cause inflation. Basically, when
                                 the demand for goods and services is substantially below the supply of those goods or
                                 services, prices tend to drift downward (certainly not increase) to encourage an increased
                                 demand.



                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                        It is not unusual to experience deflation during recessionary periods. At those
                                                    times, investors tend to flee to safe havens such as U.S. government securities
                                                    because unlike stocks, real estate, and commodities, Treasuries will likely not only
                                                    hold their value but may even show some capital appreciation.




                             Q
                 QUICK QUIZ 11.A                    True or False?

                                                    ____      1.	A depression is defined as a decrease in the GDP for 6 or more con-
                                                                  secutive months.

                                                    ____      2. The CPI is a measurement of inflation.

                                                    3.   The contraction phase of the business cycle is least likely accompanied by
                                                         decreasing
                                                         A.    consumer spending
                                                         B.    economic output
                                                         C.    inflation pressure
                                                         D.    unemployment

                                                    Quick Quiz answers can be found at the end of the session.




             11. 2           INTEREST RATES AND YIELD CURVES
                                     Although interest rates in general reflect investor expectations about inflation, short-
                                 term rates reflect the policy decisions of the Federal Reserve Board (FRB) as it implements
                                 the nation’s monetary policy.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 412                                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:03:14 PM
                                                                                                             Session 11   Basic Economics      413




                   11. 2. 1 INTEREST RATES
                                          An interest rate is the cost of borrowing money. The rate a borrower pays for funds
                                     is determined by the supply and demand for loanable funds, the credit quality of the bor-
                                     rower, and the length of time for which money is borrowed. In addition, the cost of funds
                                     is influenced by factors not related to the borrower, such as current and expected inflation
                                     and the overall supply and demand for funds in the economy.
                                          When a company borrows money by issuing bonds, the bonds have a fixed interest
                                     rate, or coupon payment. As interest rates fluctuate, the price of the bonds in the sec-
                                     ondary market also fluctuates. When interest rates increase, the bond prices decrease;
                                     when interest rates decrease, bond prices increase. Thus, there is an inverse relationship
                                     between interest rates and bond prices.


                        11. 2. 1. 1 Nominal and Real Interest Rates
                                         The nominal rate of interest is the money rate of interest or the actual amount a
                                     borrower pays for loanable funds. If inflation is expected, the nominal rate of interest will
                                     exceed the real rate of interest on a loan to compensate the lender for the decline in pur-
                                     chasing power. The real rate of interest is the nominal rate of interest minus the expected
                                     rate of inflation.



                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                          If a corporation pays 8% for a 1-year loan and the rate of inflation for the
                                                     year is 2%, the real rate of interest is 8% − 2% = 6%. This concept will be revis-
                                                     ited in Session 19.


                        11. 2. 1. 2 Yield Curve Analysis
                                          Plotted on a graph, the difference between short- and long-term interest rates normally
                                     reflects an upward sloping line known as the yield curve. When it is an upward sloping
                                     curve it is a positive, or normal, yield curve. Long-term interest rates are normally higher
                                     than short-term rates for a number of reasons. Lenders must be compensated for the:
                                     ■■ time value of money;
                                     ■■ reduced buying power of money resulting from inflation;
                                     ■■ increased risk of default over long periods; and
                                     ■■ loss of liquidity associated with long-term investments.

                                         The yield curve is also a reflection of investor expectations about inflation. If investors
                                     expect high inflation rates, they will require higher rates of interest to compensate for the
                                     reduction in purchasing power over time.



                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                         When the yield curve is normal, long-term interest rates are higher than
                                                     short-term interest rates. On a graph, the normal yield curve is upward sloping.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 413                                                                                                              7/15/2016 2:03:14 PM
     414        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                                                              Normal (Positive) Yield Curve

                                                            12%


                                                            10%

                                                                                                         As the term of the
                                                    Yield   8%                                           security increases,
                                                                                                         the yield increases.
                                                            6%


                                                            4%
                                                                  0       5        10       15       20          25        30
                                                                                     Years to Maturity


                                      In unusual circumstances, the yield curve can be inverted, or downward sloping. An
                                 inverted or negative yield curve can be the result of high current demand for money rela-
                                 tive to the available supply. Short-term interest rates tend to be more sensitive to Fed pol-
                                 icy than long-term rates. An inverted yield curve may occur because of a sharp increase in
                                 short-term rates. Therefore, when you notice a negative yield curve, you can expect that
                                 interest rates have rapidly risen and, according to most analysts, they will soon retreat.
                                                                           Inverted (Negative) Yield Curve
                                                            12%


                                                            10%

                                                                                                         As the term of the
                                                    Yield   8%                                           security increases,
                                                                                                         the yield decreases.
                                                            6%


                                                            4%
                                                                  0       5        10       15       20          25       30
                                                                                     Years to Maturity


                                      When short-term and long-term rates are the same, it is called a flat yield curve.



                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                        You will need to be able to recognize the different yield curves from their
                                                    “shape.” A normal (positive) curve slopes upward. An inverted (negative) curve
                                                    slopes downward. And, there is such a thing as a flat yield curve which, as the
                                                    name implies, is level throughout all of the maturities.




                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                            The shape of the yield curve varies with changes in the economic cycle.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 414                                                                                                            7/15/2016 2:03:15 PM
                                                                                                          Session 11   Basic Economics      415




                                                  ■■ If the yield curve spread between corporate bonds and government
                                                     bonds is widening, a recession is expected. Investors have chosen the
                                                     safety of government bonds over higher corporate yields, which occurs
                                                     when the economy slows down.

                                                  ■■ If the yield curve between corporate bonds and government bonds is
                                                     narrowing, an economic expansion is expected and investors are willing
                                                     to take risks. They will sell government bonds to buy higher-yielding
                                                     corporates.

                                                                Corporate and Government Bonds
                                                                                                 AAA Corporates
                                                      6%


                                                 Yield 5%                                        US Governments

                                                      4%




                                                            0      5   10     15      20    25
                                                                        Years to Maturity




                             !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                   When constructing a yield curve, the most common method is to use bonds
                                              of a single issuer over varying maturities. Specifically, most rely on the curve
                                              drawn when plotting yields on U.S. Treasury securities, starting with the 90-day
                                              T-bill and ending with anything from the 10-year note to the 30-year bond.




                   11. 3     ECONOMIC INDICATORS
                                  Certain statistical indicators are used to measure the economic health of a country at
                              a given time. Two of the indicators likely to be tested are discussed below.


                   11. 3. 1 GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (GDP)
                                   Gross domestic product (GDP) expresses the total value of all final goods and services
                              produced within the United States during the year. GDP includes personal consumption
                              (by far the largest component), government spending, gross private investment, foreign
                              investment, and the total value of net exports. If imports exceed exports, that negatively
                              affects GDP and that net amount is subtracted in our computation. The GDP measures a
                              country’s output produced within its borders regardless of who generated it. To account for
                              inflation, GDP is based on a constant dollar, currently the value in 2005.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 415                                                                                                           7/15/2016 2:03:15 PM
     416        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




             11. 3. 2 CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (CPI)
                                     The consumer price index (CPI) is a measure of the general retail price level. By
                                 comparing the current cost of buying a basket of goods with the cost of buying the same
                                 basket a year ago, we can get an indication of changes in the cost of living. In doing so, the
                                 CPI figure attempts to measure the rate of increase or decrease in a broad range of prices,
                                 such as food, housing, transportation, medical care, clothing, electricity, entertainment,
                                 and services. The CPI is published on a monthly basis by the Bureau of Labor Statistics
                                 (BLS) and is the most commonly used measurement of the rate of inflation.



                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                          The index for all items, less food and energy, is often unofficially referred to
                                                    as the core CPI, a term created by the media and not the Bureau of Labor Sta-
                                                    tistics. The reasoning behind excluding food and energy prices when computing
                                                    core inflation is because of their high short-term volatility.




                             Q
                 QUICK QUIZ 11.B                    1.   Core inflation is best described as an inflation rate
                                                         A.   for producers’ raw materials
                                                         B.   the central bank views as acceptable
                                                         C.   that excludes certain volatile goods prices
                                                         D.   that represents a market basket of consumer items

                                                    2.   A bond analyst is plotting a yield curve and notices that short-term maturi-
                                                         ties have higher yields than intermediate and long-term maturities. This is an
                                                         example of a(n)
                                                         A.   inverted yield curve
                                                         B.   positive yield curve
                                                         C.   normal yield curve
                                                         D.   algorithmic yield curve

                                                    3.   As current interest rates go up, the market price of existing corporate bonds
                                                         bearing lower interest rates will
                                                         A.   increase
                                                         B.   stay the same
                                                         C.   decrease
                                                         D.   change in unpredictable ways



             11. 4           THE TOOLS OF FUNDAMENTAL ANALYSIS:
                             FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                     A corporation’s financial statements provide a fundamental analyst with the informa-
                                 tion needed to assess that corporation’s profitability, liquidity, financial strength, and oper-
                                 ating efficiency. By examining how certain numbers from one statement relate to prior




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 416                                                                                                                   7/15/2016 2:03:15 PM
                                                                                                      Session 11   Basic Economics      417




                                statements and how the resulting ratios relate to the company’s competitors, the analyst
                                can determine how financially viable the company is.
                                    Companies issue quarterly and annual financial reports to the SEC. A company’s bal-
                                ance sheet and income statement are included in these reports.


                   11. 4. 1 BALANCE SHEET
                                     The balance sheet provides a snapshot of a company’s financial position at a specific
                                point in time. It identifies the value of the company’s assets (what it owns) and its liabili-
                                ties (what it owes). The difference between these two figures is the corporation’s owners’
                                equity, or net worth.
                                     The balance sheet equation is:

                                                          Assets = liabilities + owners’ equity; or

                                                            Assets – liabilities = owners’ equity.

                                     Although it is useful in determining a company’s current value, the balance sheet does
                                not indicate whether the company’s business is improving or deteriorating. The balance
                                sheet gets its name from the fact that its two sides must balance. The balance sheet equa-
                                tion mathematically expresses the relationship between the two sides of the balance sheet.
                                Simply stated, everything that is owned (assets) minus everything that is owed (liabilities)
                                is equal to the net worth (owners’ or shareholders’ equity) of the entity.


                        11. 4. 1. 1 Assets
                                     Assets appear on the balance sheet in order of liquidity, which is the ease with which
                                they can be turned into cash. Assets that are most readily convertible into cash are listed
                                first, followed by less liquid assets. Balance sheets commonly identify three types of assets:
                                current assets (cash and assets easily convertible into cash), fixed assets (physical assets
                                that could eventually be sold), and other assets (usually intangible and only of value to
                                the corporation that owns them).

                                11. 4. 1. 1. 1 Current Assets

                                    Current assets include all cash and other items expected to be converted into cash
                                within the next 12 months. Common examples include receivables and inventory.

                                11. 4. 1. 1. 2 Fixed Assets

                                    Fixed assets are property, plant, and equipment. Unlike current assets, they are not
                                easily converted into cash.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 417                                                                                                       7/15/2016 2:03:15 PM
     418        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                 11. 4. 1. 1. 3 Other Assets

                                     Intangible assets are nonphysical properties, such as formulas, brand names, contract
                                 rights, and trademarks. Goodwill, also an intangible asset, reflects the corporation’s repu-
                                 tation and relationship with its clients.



                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                        Although intangible assets may have great value to the corporation owning
                                                    them, they generally carry little value to other entities.


                   11. 4. 1. 2 Liabilities
                                     Total liabilities on a balance sheet represent all financial claims by creditors against
                                 the corporation’s assets. Balance sheets usually include two main types of liabilities: cur-
                                 rent liabilities and long-term liabilities.

                                 11. 4. 1. 2. 1 Current Liabilities

                                    Current liabilities are corporate debt obligations due for payment within the next 12
                                 months. Common examples include accounts payable and accrued taxes.

                                 11. 4. 1. 2. 2 Long-Term Liabilities

                                    Long-term debts are financial obligations due for payment after 12 months. Examples
                                 would include bonds and mortgages.


                   11. 4. 1. 3 Shareholder Equity
                                     Shareholder equity, also called net worth or owners’ equity, is the stockholder claims
                                 on a company’s assets after all of its creditors have been paid. Shareholder equity equals
                                 total assets less total liabilities. On a balance sheet, three types of shareholder equity are
                                 identified: capital stock at par, capital in excess of par, and retained earnings.



                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         Net worth = assets – liabilities.


                   11. 4. 1. 4 Capital Structure
                                      A company’s capitalization is the combined sum of its long-term debt and equity secu-
                                 rities. The capital structure is the relative amounts of debt and equity that compose a
                                 company’s capitalization. Some companies finance their business with a large proportion
                                 of borrowed funds; others finance growth with retained earnings from normal operations
                                 and little or no debt.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 418                                                                                                          7/15/2016 2:03:15 PM
                                                                                                            Session 11   Basic Economics      419




                                        Looking at the balance sheet, a corporation builds its capital structure with equity and
                                     debt including the following four elements:
                                     ■■ Long-term debt
                                     ■■ Capital stock (common and preferred)
                                     ■■ Capital in excess of par
                                     ■■ Retained earnings (earned surplus)


                        11. 4. 1. 5 Balance Sheet Computations

                                     11. 4. 1. 5. 1 Working Capital

                                         Working capital is the amount of capital or cash a company has available. Working
                                     capital is a measure of a firm’s liquidity, which is its ability to quickly turn assets into cash
                                     to meet its short-term obligations.
                                         The formula for working capital is:

                                                         current assets – current liabilities = working capital.

                                         By the way, the “family” balance sheet we’ll be discussing in Session 15 is no different
                                     in concept, and the client’s working capital is used in the same way to measure liquidity.

                                     11. 4. 1. 5. 2 Current Ratio

                                         Knowing the amount of working capital is useful, but it becomes an even better indi-
                                     cator when paired together with the current ratio. This computation uses the same two
                                     items, current assets and current liabilities, but expresses them as a ratio of one to the
                                     other. Simply divide the current assets by the current liabilities and the higher the ratio,
                                     the more liquid the company is.

                                     11. 4. 1. 5. 3 Quick Asset Ratio (Acid Test Ratio)

                                         Sometimes it is important for the analyst to use an even stricter test of a company’s
                                     ability to meet its short-term obligations (as such, “pass the acid test”). The quick asset
                                     ratio uses the company’s quick assets instead of all of the current assets. Quick assets are
                                     current assets minus the inventory. Then divide these quick assets by the current liabilities
                                     to arrive at the quick ratio.



                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                          Liquidity measures a company’s ability to pay the expenses associated with
                                                      running the business.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 419                                                                                                             7/15/2016 2:03:15 PM
     420        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                 11. 4. 1. 5. 4 Debt-to-Equity Ratio

                                     The best way to measure the amount of financial leverage being employed by the
                                 company is by calculating the debt-to-equity ratio. It is really a misnomer—it should be
                                 called the debt-to-total capitalization ratio because that is what it is. For illustration, we’re
                                 going to look at a corporation whose total capitalization is $90 million ($50 million in
                                 long-term debt, $20 million in preferred stock, and $20 million in common shareholders’
                                 equity). Remember, capital stock (both preferred and common) + capital in excess of par
                                 + retained earnings = shareholders’ equity (net worth or owner’s equity).
                                                                    Sample Capitalization Chart
                                                               Total capitalization: $90 million
                                                               LT debt: $50 million
                                                               + Preferred stock: Par $20 million
                                                               + Common stock: Par $1 million
                                                               + Capital (paid in) surplus: $4 million
                                                               + Retained earnings: $15 million

                                      For example, using the numbers in our capitalization chart, we see the total capital
                                 employed in the business is $90 million. Of that, $50 million is long-term debt. So, we
                                 want to know how much of the $90 million total is represented by debt capital. The answer
                                 is simple: $50 million of the $90 million, or 55.55%. That is the debt-to-equity ratio.

                                 11. 4. 1. 5. 5 Book Value Per Share

                                      A fundamental analyst is described as one who focuses on the company’s books.
                                 Therefore, one of the key numbers computed is the book value per share. The calcula-
                                 tion is almost identical to one we have already studied—NAV per share of an investment
                                 company.
                                      In the case of a corporation, it is basically the liquidation value of the enterprise. That
                                 is, let’s assume we sold all of our assets, paid back everyone we owe, and then split what
                                 is left among the stockholders. But, remember, before we can hand over anything to the
                                 common shareholders, we must take care of any outstanding preferred stock. So, from the
                                 funds that are left after we pay off all of the liabilities, we give the preferred shareholders
                                 back their par (or stated) value and the rest belongs to the common stockholders.
                                      But, there is one more thing. In the case of liquidation, some of the assets on our
                                 books might not really be worth what we’re carrying them at. In particular, those that are
                                 known as intangible assets (goodwill, patents, trademarks, copyrights, etc.). That is why
                                 the analyst uses only the tangible assets, computed by subtracting those intangibles from
                                 the total assets.
                                      Expressed as a formula, book value per share is:
                                       tangible assets – liabilities – par value of preferred
                                                                                                  = book value per share.
                                             shares of common stock outstanding




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 420                                                                                                           7/15/2016 2:03:15 PM
                                                                                                          Session 11   Basic Economics      421




                             Q
                       QUICK QUIZ 11.C          1.   The difference between current assets and current liabilities is called
                                                     A.   net worth
                                                     B.   working capital
                                                     C.   cash flow
                                                     D.   quick assets

                                                2.   A company has been experiencing increased earnings but has kept its divi-
                                                     dend payments constant. As a result solely of this, the company’s balance
                                                     sheet would reflect
                                                     A.   decreased net working capital
                                                     B.   decreased net worth
                                                     C.   decreased retained earnings
                                                     D.   increased shareholders’ equity


                        11. 4. 1. 6 Footnotes
                                     Footnotes to the financial statements identify significant financial and management
                                issues that may affect the company’s overall performance, such as accounting methods
                                used, extraordinary items, pending litigation, and management philosophy.
                                     Typically, a company separately discloses details about its long-term debt in the foot-
                                notes. These disclosures are useful for determining the timing and amount of future cash
                                outflows. The disclosures usually include a discussion of the nature of the liabilities, matu-
                                rity dates, stated and effective interest rates, call provisions and conversion privileges,
                                restrictions imposed by creditors, assets pledged as security, and the amount of debt matur-
                                ing in each of the next five years.
                                     Also disclosed in the footnotes would be off the books financing arrangements such as
                                debt guarantees.



                              !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT              Footnotes are generally found on the bottom of the financial statements and
                                                can be several pages long.



                   11. 4. 2 INCOME STATEMENT
                                    The income statement, sometimes referred to as the profit and loss or P&L statement,
                                summarizes a company’s revenues (sales) and expenses for a fiscal period, usually quarterly,
                                year to date, or the full year. It compares revenue against costs and expenses during the
                                period. Fundamental analysts use the income statement to judge the efficiency and profit-
                                ability of a company’s operation.


                        11. 4. 2. 1 Fiscal Year Accounting
                                    Many business entities prefer to end their accounting year on a date other than
                                December 31 (calendar year accounting). Any 12-month period used by a business that
                                ends other than on December 31 is known as a fiscal year (the term fiscal is generally
                                defined as something that pertains to financial matters). This term will be used many times
                                when referring to required filings by investment advisers.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 421                                                                                                           7/15/2016 2:03:15 PM
     422        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                             Q
                 QUICK QUIZ 11.D                    1.    Potential litigation for patent infringement would appear on a corporation’s
                                                          A.   balance sheet as a deferred asset
                                                          B.   footnotes
                                                          C.   income statement as an expense
                                                          D.   statement of potential litigation


                   11. 4. 2. 2 Income Statement Computations
                                     There are a number of important ratios that can be computed using information from
                                 the income statement. We’ll take a look at several of them.

                                 11. 4. 2. 2. 1 Earnings Per Share (EPS)

                                     Among the most widely used statistics, EPS measures the value of a company’s earn-
                                 ings for each common share:
                                                                          earnings available to common
                                                               EPS =
                                                                          number of shares outstanding

                                     Earnings available to common are the remaining earnings after the preferred dividend
                                 has been paid. Earnings per share relates to common stock only. Preferred stockholders
                                 have no claims to earnings beyond the stipulated preferred stock dividends.

                                 11. 4. 2. 2. 2 Current Yield (Dividend Yield)

                                     A common stock’s current yield, like the current yield on bonds, expresses the annual
                                 dividend payout as a percentage of the current stock price:
                                                                           annual dividends per common share
                                                         current yield =
                                                                             market value per common share




                             Q
                  QUICK QUIZ 11.E                   1.    When an analyst includes the inventory in a company’s current assets and
                                                          divides the sum by the current liabilities, the result is
                                                          A.   the acid-test (quick-asset) ratio
                                                          B.   the current ratio
                                                          C.   the working capital
                                                          D.   the net worth

                                                    2.    An analyst comments that a company could be in danger because it is highly
                                                          leveraged. Most likely, the analyst feels that the company has a
                                                          A.   low current ratio
                                                          B.   high current ratio
                                                          C.   high debt-to-equity ratio
                                                          D.   low debt-to-equity ratio




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 422                                                                                                               7/15/2016 2:03:15 PM
                                                                                                       Session 11   Basic Economics       423




                        Q U I C K         Q U I Z          A N S W E R S


                   Quick Quiz 11.A                                             Quick Quiz 11.C

                      1. F.   A depression is a decrease in the GDP for at       1. B.   Working capital (or net working capital) is,
                              least six consecutive quarters.                            by definition, the difference between current
                                                                                         assets and current liabilities.
                      2. T.   The CPI is a measurement of inflation.
                                                                                 2. D.   If earnings increase, retained earnings also
                      3. D.   An economic contraction is likely to feature               increase. If the increased retained earnings
                              increasing unemployment (i.e., decreasing                  are not paid out as dividends, shareholders’
                              employment), along with decreasing                         equity increases.
                              consumer spending, declining economic
                              output, and decreasing inflation pressure.       Quick Quiz 11.D

                   Quick Quiz 11.B                                               1. B.   The footnotes to the financial statements
                                                                                         carry information such as potential legal
                      1. C.   Core inflation is measured using a price index             actions, accounting methods used (e.g., FIFO
                              that excludes food and energy prices.                      or LIFO), and off-book debt.
                      2. A.   An inverted, or negative, yield curve is         Quick Quiz 11.E
                              one that results when debt with short-term
                              maturities has higher yields than those with       1. B.   Total current assets divided by total current
                              maturities that are longer. A positive, or                 liabilities is the formula for the current ratio.
                              normal, yield curve results when the yields                When the inventory is not included in the
                              increase as maturities do.                                 current assets, the ratio is the quick asset
                                                                                         (acid test) ratio.
                      3. C.   There is an inverse relationship between
                              interest rates and bond prices. This means         2. C.   A high debt-to-equity ratio indicates that a
                              that as current interest rates go up, the                  substantial portion of the company’s funding
                              market price of existing bonds will go down.               is from debt. In other words, the company is
                                                                                         highly leveraged and, just like individuals,
                                                                                         the more borrowed money, the more danger.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 423                                                                                                            7/15/2016 2:03:15 PM
Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 424   7/15/2016 2:03:16 PM
                             12
                             Methods of Quantitative
                             Analysis


                             Q
                                       uantitative means using numbers and quantitative analysis is the
                                       use of various mathematical computations in an attempt to make
                                       better investment decisions. Because the testing center only per-
                             mits the use of a simple four-function calculator, any computations you will
                             be asked to perform will be relatively straightforward. In general, it will be
                             more important to understand the concept than do the computation.
                                 The Series 66 exam will have approximately 3 questions on the material
                             covered in this session. ■




                                                                                                          425




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 425                                                                          7/15/2016 2:03:16 PM
            OBJECTIVES


                                 When you have completed this session, you should be able to:

                             ■■ describe the difference between present and future value;

                             ■■ employ the Rule of 72 to determine the return on an investment;

                             ■■ select the proper measure of central tendency when presented with a group of numbers;

                             ■■ recognize how standard deviation relates to volatility;

                             ■■ explain the relationship between correlation and diversification;

                             ■■ contrast alpha and beta;

                             ■■ calculate the alpha of a portfolio; and

                             ■■ compute the price to earnings ratio of a common stock.




      426




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 426                                                                                    7/15/2016 2:03:16 PM
                                                                                              Session 12   Methods of Quantitative Analysis      427




                   12. 1         QUANTITATIVE ANALYSIS
                                         There is no question that investing is a “numbers” business. In the previous session,
                                     we discussed financial statements as a tool for evaluating a company and those are almost
                                     entirely number oriented. In this session, we’ll go further by looking at both the overall
                                     market and examine some of the tools that quantitative analysts (known as quants in the
                                     industry) use to assist them in making investment decisions.


                   12. 1. 1 TIME VALUE OF MONEY
                                         The time value of money is the difference between the value of money today (its pres-
                                     ent value) and its value sometime in the future (its future value).
                                         We’ve all heard the famous saying “time is money.” The concept applies to invest-
                                     ments. For example, if a person promises to pay a certain sum 10 years from now, what is
                                     it worth to have the money today so that the investor will have use of it over the next 10
                                     years instead of having to wait? If the investor could earn 10% on the money, compounded
                                     annually, having about $38.55 today would be equivalent in value to receiving $100 in
                                     10 years. The second view of time value relates to computing the amount necessary to be
                                     invested today, using an assumed rate of return, so that it will have a defined amount in
                                     the future. Using the above case, if the investor were to invest $38.55 today and earn 10%
                                     compounded annually, he would have $100 in 10 years.



                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                          Although this can be proven in less than 10 seconds using a financial calcula-
                                                     tor, you may have to do a compound return computation on the exam but won’t
                                                     have the benefit of such a fancy tool. Using the basic four-function calculator
                                                     issued at the testing center, you would take the initial $38.55 and multiply that
                                                     by 110% and continue to do that for a total of 10 times. I’ll just get you started
                                                     to show you what it looks like:
                                                         38.55 x 110% = 42.405 x 110% = 46.6455 x 110% = 51.31 and so forth
                                                     seven more times will get to you approximately 100.00. This is the same concept
                                                     we showed you with the TIPS bond.


                        12. 1. 1. 1 Future Value
                                         Future value is the formal term that indicates what an amount invested today at a
                                     given rate will be worth at some period in the future. The future value of a dollar invested
                                     today depends on the:
                                     ■■ rate of return it earns (r); and
                                     ■■ number of years over which it is invested (n).

                                         The equation to calculate the FV of an investment is expressed as:

                                                                          FV = PV × (1 + r)n.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 427                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:03:17 PM
     428        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                             *
                         EXAMPLE                         In these two examples, we will demonstrate how these values are calculated.
                                                    However, you will NOT be required to know the formula or how to do these
                                                    computations. The value of $11,348.54 five years from today, its future value, is
                                                    calculated using the above formula as follows:

                                                                            FV = $11,348.54 (the PV) × 1.125 = $20,000.


                                     The future value expressed here reflects a compound rate of return on the original
                                 $11,348.54 invested. The compound return assumes that the interest earned (12% in this
                                 case) in a given period (five years) is reinvested at the identical rate for the number of
                                 years in which it is invested.



                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         To find PV, you must already know the FV.
                                                         To find FV, you must already know the PV.


                   12. 1. 1. 2 Present Value
                                     Present value is the formal term for value today of the future cash flows of an invest-
                                 ment discounted at a specified interest rate to determine the present worth of those future
                                 cash flows.
                                     Intuitively, investors recognize that a dollar in hand is worth more than a dollar in the
                                 future. The difference between the value today and sometime in the future is a function of
                                 the time elapsed and the rate of interest earned.
                                     The formula used to calculate present value is as follows:

                                                                          PV = FV ÷ (1 + r)n.

                                      In the formula above, PV stands for the present value, FV stands for the future value,
                                 r is the interest rate, and n is the number of time periods the money is compounded.
                                      This formula says that the present value (PV) of an investment equals the invest-
                                 ment’s future value (FV) discounted at (divided by) an interest rate over a time period
                                 specified by n. The factor (1 + r)n is known as the discount factor.




                             *
                         EXAMPLE                        What is the present value of $20,000 that will be received 5 years (n) from
                                                    today? If the investor requires a 12% return (r) for the $20,000, the value of that
                                                    $20,000 today (PV) to be received in 5 years is calculated as follows:

                                                             PV =
                                                                        FV
                                                                     (1 + .12)5
                                                                                =
                                                                                   $20,000
                                                                                  1.7623416
                                                                                            = ($11,348.54).

                                                         The $20,000 to be received in 5 years discounted by the required 12% inter-
                                                    est rate is worth $11,348.54 today.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 428                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:03:17 PM
                                                                                         Session 12   Methods of Quantitative Analysis      429




                              !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT               When computing present value (or future value), we are using an estimated
                                                rate of return. What happens if the actual return is different from the estimated?
                                                If our actual return is less, we don’t make out as well. That means that the pres-
                                                ent value (the required initial deposit) is going to be higher than we computed.
                                                On the other hand, if the actual return was higher than the present value (we did
                                                better than we thought), the present value (the amount we would have had to
                                                deposit), is less.
                                                     The same logic holds true for future value. If the actual return is higher than
                                                projected, the future value will be higher (we made more on our money than we
                                                thought we would). Logically, if the actual return is lower, our future value winds
                                                up lower.


                        12. 1. 1. 3 Rule of 72
                                    The rule of 72 is a shortcut method for determining the number of years it takes for
                                an investment to double in value assuming compounded earnings. To find the number of
                                years for an investment to double, simply divide the number 72 by the interest rate the
                                investment pays. For example, an investment of $2,000 earning 6% will double in 12 years
                                (72 ÷ 6 = 12).
                                    Here is another example of the rule of 72. A savings account with $1,000 in it bear-
                                ing 4% compounded per year in interest would double (i.e., the account would be worth
                                $2,000) in 18 years; 72 ÷ 4 = 18.



                              !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT               Suppose an investment of $1,000 was worth $4,000 in 16 years. Under the
                                                rule of 72, what is the compounded earnings rate?
                                                     You figure this by realizing that the account has quadrupled. That means
                                                it has doubled twice. So, if it took 16 years to double twice, it takes 8 years to
                                                double one time. Dividing 72 by 8 tells us that our account must be earning 9%.

                                    The Rule of 72 also works in reverse. That is, if you know the number of years you
                                have, you can compute the required earnings rate to double by, once again, using 72 as
                                the numerator and this time the number of years as the denominator. For example, if you
                                have nine years before your child is going to enter college, what will you have to earn in
                                order for a deposit made today to double? Simply divide 72 by 9 and the result is that a 8%
                                earnings rate will have your money double.


                        12. 1. 1. 4 Net Present Value (NPV)
                                     Net present value (NPV) is the difference between an investment’s present value and
                                its cost. An NPV of $10 means that an investment that cost $100 must have a discounted
                                present value of $110, for an NPV of $10. Note that the difference between the cost
                                ($100) and the discounted present value of the investment’s future returns ($110) equals
                                the NPV ($10).




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 429                                                                                                           7/15/2016 2:03:17 PM
     430        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         NPV is expressed in dollar amounts and not as a rate of return.

                                      NPV is an analytical concept used by corporations to determine whether to invest in a
                                 capital project (e.g., a new factory). The anticipated income from the factory is discounted
                                 to its present value by using the company’s required rate of return as the discount rate.
                                      If the discounted PV of the projected income is greater than the cost of the factory, the
                                 project has a positive NPV. If this is the case, the project will add value to the company
                                 because its return is more than the company’s cost of capital. If the NPV is negative, the
                                 project will drain value from the firm.
                                      An investment adviser could use the NPV concept to evaluate a client’s investment
                                 in any investment vehicle with a projected income stream. The adviser would project
                                 the cash flows from the investment and then discount them to their present value at the
                                 investor’s required rate of return. If the NPV is positive, the investment adds value to the
                                 investor’s portfolio.


                   12. 1. 1. 5 Internal Rate of Return (IRR)
                                     The internal rate of return (IRR) is the discount rate (r) that makes the future value
                                 of an investment equal to its present value. The IRR can be thought of as the r in the
                                 present and future value calculations. The IRR is difficult to calculate directly; it must be
                                 determined by a trial-and-error process called iteration. IRR takes into consideration the
                                 time value of money. IRR is not practical for common stock due to uneven cash flow and
                                 no maturity date and price.



                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         The IRR calculation can be used to determine whether an investment meets
                                                    the investor’s required rate of return. If an investor requires an investment return
                                                    of 10% and the IRR for a proposed investment is 12%, the investor will view
                                                    that investment as attractive because it returns a higher rate than the investor’s
                                                    required rate.




                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT                       NPV and IRR are far and away the most difficult mathematical concepts
                                                    you’ll encounter on this exam. These are most important points to remember.
                                                         ■■ Internal rate of return is the method of computing long-term returns
                                                            that takes into consideration time value of money.

                                                         ■■ The yield to maturity of a bond reflects its IRR.

                                                         ■■ The investment is a good one if it has a positive NPV; stay away if the
                                                            NPV is negative.

                                                         ■■ NPV is generally considered more important than IRR.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 430                                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:03:17 PM
                                                                                      Session 12   Methods of Quantitative Analysis      431




                   12. 2     DESCRIPTIVE STATISTICS
                                    There are a number of other numerical tools used that do not involve time value.
                                Following are those most likely to appear on your exam.


                   12. 2. 1 MEASURES OF CENTRAL TENDENCY
                                    We are going to continue this section on quantitative measurements with a discus-
                                sion dealing with the method of determining how one might approach figuring the logical
                                outcome of a securities investment. Central tendency is usually defined as the center or
                                middle of a distribution. There are many measures of central tendency. Let’s take a look
                                at some of them.


                        12. 2. 1. 1 Mean or Arithmetic Mean
                                    When we use the word average, this is what we are really speaking about. Of all the dif-
                                ferent measures, this is the one most commonly used to measure central tendency. You’ve
                                been computing this for years—all you do is take the sum of the variables and divide by the
                                number of occurrences. For example, if a stock returned 5%, then 8%, then 9%, and then
                                2%, the mean would be 6% (5 + 8 + 9 + 2 = 24 ÷ 4 = 6). Even though is the most used
                                (probably because it is so simple to do), the mean may not be an appropriate measure of
                                central tendency for skewed distributions. As you will soon see, there is also the geometric
                                mean, but the term mean by itself will always refer to the arithmetic mean, sometimes
                                referred to as outliers.


                        12. 2. 1. 2 Median
                                    The median is a midpoint of a distribution. That is, there are as many variables below
                                as there are above. To find the median of a number of returns, list them in order and then
                                find the number in the middle. For example, the median of 11, 7, 4, 13 and 8 is 8 (4, 7, 8,
                                11, 13). If the number of variables is even, then take the average of the middle two. If we
                                use the numbers given above for mean (2, 5, 8, and 9), the average of the middle two is
                                6.5 (5 + 8 = 13 divided by 2 = 6.5). Note that the median is not the same number as the
                                mean. The median is often more appropriate than the mean in skewed distributions or in
                                situations with variables that fall far outside the normal range.


                        12. 2. 1. 3 Mode
                                     The mode is determined much differently than the prior two. Mode measures the most
                                common value in a distribution of numbers. For example, the mode of 2, 2, 2, 6, 7, 7, 9 is 2.
                                The mode is likely to be quite unlike the mean or median. For example, using the numbers
                                just shown, the mean is 5 (35 ÷ 7) and the median is 6.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 431                                                                                                        7/15/2016 2:03:17 PM
     432        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                   12. 2. 1. 4 Geometric Mean
                                     This one takes some math skills and is, therefore rarely used (and probably won’t be
                                 a correct choice on the exam and certainly not something you’ll have to compute). The
                                 geometric mean of any given set of numbers (n) is obtained by multiplying all of them
                                 together, and then taking the nth root of them. For example, over the past five years, a
                                 stock has annual returns of 10%, 5%, 15%, 8%, and 12%. Its geometric mean is 9.36%.
                                 This is computed by multiplying 10 × 5 × 15 × 8 × 12 which equals 72,000 and finding
                                 the 5th root.
                                     This is not to be confused with the more commonly used arithmetic mean, which, in
                                 this case, is 10 + 5 + 15 + 8 + 12 = 50 ÷ 5 = 10%.



                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT                        When comparing the arithmetic mean to the geometric mean, the arithmetic
                                                    mean will always be higher, unless all of the numbers being used are the same
                                                    (e.g., figuring the mean of 6, 6, and 6), in which case they will be equal. The
                                                    reason is because the geometric mean uses imputed compounding.


                   12. 2. 1. 5 Range
                                      Range is the difference between the highest and lowest returns in the sample being
                                 viewed. When there are many values at either extreme of the range, the results tend to be
                                 skewed in that direction. Some look at the mid-range value which, as the name implies,
                                 is the number that is exactly in the middle of the range. The simplest way to do this is to
                                 reorder the data set from smallest to largest and then subtract the first element from the
                                 last element.
                                      For example, if we look at the numbers we used to determine median, we reorder the
                                 numbers: 4, 7, 8, 11, and 13. This makes the range 9 (13-4) and the mid-range is 8.5, close
                                 to, but not the same as the median. Using our mode example, the range is 7 (9-2) and the
                                 mid-range is 5.5.




                             *
                         EXAMPLE                       Over the past seven years, a security has produced annual returns of 10%,
                                                    4%, –5%, 10%, 12%, –2%, and 6%.
                                                         In this example, the mean return (the average) is 5% (adding these seven
                                                    returns totals +35% and dividing by seven results in an average of 5%). The me-
                                                    dian return, the one with as many returns above as below, is 6%. The mode, the
                                                    return with the most occurrences, is 10% and the range, the difference between
                                                    the lowest and highest returns, is 17% (–5% to +12%).




                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT                       You may have a question that shows four portfolios listing the mean, the
                                                    median and the mode for each one. The question will ask: Which one had some
                                                    investments that significantly outperformed the average of the other invest-
                                                    ments? The answer will be the one with the highest mean. (See 7.5.2.11) To




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 432                                                                                                            7/15/2016 2:03:17 PM
                                                                                              Session 12   Methods of Quantitative Analysis      433




                                                     show how that works, let’s say that you have seven securities in the portfolio
                                                     with the following returns: A: 5%; B: 5%; C: 8%; D: 10%; E: 12%; F: 40%; and
                                                     G: 60%. The mode (the number that appears the most frequently) is 5%. The
                                                     median (the number with the same number of returns above and below it) is
                                                     10% and the mean (the average of the seven returns) is 20% (140 divided by
                                                     7). The two outliers (F at 40% and G at 60%) caused the mean (average) to be
                                                     significantly higher than the mode or the median because those two performed
                                                     significantly better than the other five holdings.




                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                          As you review these quantitative evaluation measurements, know that the
                                                     exam is more concerned with the ability to identify what they measure than how
                                                     to perform the calculation. One or two questions might require a relatively simple
                                                     calculation on current yield, after-tax return/yield, inflation-adjusted return, or
                                                     total return.



                   12. 2. 2 INCOME IN PERPETUITY
                                          As an investment adviser representative, a client may approach you about a method
                                     for providing an annual income “forever” for a relative or perhaps a charity. This is known
                                     as income in perpetuity. If you know the average expected rate of return and the desired
                                     annual income, divide that income by the rate of return and you will arrive at the lump
                                     sum required to throw off that income perpetually.




                               *
                              EXAMPLE                    A rich uncle wishes to provide $1,000 per month in perpetuity to his favorite
                                                     niece. If the account can be invested to earn 5% per annum, what is the required
                                                     deposit?
                                                         A. $20,000
                                                         B. $24,000
                                                         C. $200,000
                                                         D. $240,000
                                                         Answer: D. The first step is to take the monthly income and convert it to
                                                         a yearly number: $1,000 per month is $12,000 per year. Then, divide that
                                                         $12,000 by the 5% rate of return, and you arrive at a lump-sum deposit of
                                                         $240,000.



                   12. 2. 3 EXHAUSTING THE PRINCIPAL
                                         Unlike the previous example where the income was to last forever, what happens
                                     when the client has a fixed sum and wants to know how long money can be withdrawn
                                     before it is exhausted?




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 433                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:03:17 PM
     434        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                     This is a simple computation when one has a financial calculator available, but all
                                 they give you at the test center is a simple four-function one, and that makes the task
                                 highly laborious.
                                     Let’s take a look at an example of the kind that may be presented on the Series 66
                                 exam.




                             *
                         EXAMPLE                         An investor has $100,000 to invest. If the account is estimated to earn at a
                                                    rate of 5% per year and the investor wishes to withdraw $12,000 per year, ap-
                                                    proximately how long will the money last?
                                                         A. 5 years
                                                         B. 8 years
                                                         C. 11 years
                                                         D. 16 years
                                                         Answer: C. Here is the correct math, where BOY means Beginning of the
                                                         Year and EOY is End of the Year:

                                                                  Year      BOY Value         EOY Value
                                                                    1        100,000           105,000
                                                                    2         93,000            97,650
                                                                    3         85,650            89,933
                                                                    4         77,933            81,829
                                                                    5         69,829            73,321
                                                                    6         61,321            64,387
                                                                    7         52,387            55,006
                                                                    8         43,006            45,156
                                                                    9         33,156            34,814
                                                                   10         22,814            23,955
                                                                   11         11,955            12,552
                                                                   12          552               580

                                                        This shows that one taking the money out at the end of the year, will have
                                                    exhausted all but a bit over $550 by the end of the 11th year.
                                                         You can do this with the calculator furnished at the test center as follows:
                                                         ■■ 100,000 × 105% = 105,000 – 12,000 = 93,000

                                                         ■■ 93,000 × 105% = 97,650 – 12,000 = 85,650

                                                         ■■ 85,650 × 105% = 89,933 – 12,000 = 77,933 and continue

                                                        Obviously, this takes a lot of time. Since the answer choices are so far apart,
                                                    I would suggest taking a shortcut. Take the initial principal, $100,000; divide by
                                                    the annual withdrawal rate, $12,000 (100 ÷ 12 = 8.33); and choose the next
                                                    highest number (because you have to realize that the account is earning 5% on
                                                    whatever assets remain).




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 434                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:03:17 PM
                                                                                               Session 12   Methods of Quantitative Analysis      435




                                Q
                       QUICK QUIZ 12.A               1.   Present value is a computation that is frequently used to determine the
                                                          amount of a deposit needed now to meet a future need, such as a college
                                                          education. If an investor uses an expected return of 8% but the actual return
                                                          over the period is 10%, the future value will be
                                                          A.   lower than anticipated
                                                          B.   higher than anticipated
                                                          C.   the same as anticipated
                                                          D.   too varying to tell

                                                     2.   Your 50-year-old client has just inherited $50,000 from a relative and wishes
                                                          to invest it into a single payment deferred variable annuity. What computa-
                                                          tion would be use to approximate the value of the account when the client
                                                          reaches 70?
                                                          A.   future value
                                                          B.   present value
                                                          C.   net present value
                                                          D.   internal rate of return

                                                     3.   An investor is looking at the past performance of a security over the past
                                                          three years. In year one, it returned 10%; year two it returned 15%; and
                                                          year three it returned –4%. This computes to an average rate of return of
                                                          7%. This would be properly referred to as the
                                                         A. arithmetic mean
                                                         B. internal rate of return
                                                         C. median return
                                                         D. range
                                                     Quick Quiz answers can be found at the end of the session.


                   12. 2. 4 BETA/BETA COEFFICIENT
                                         Beta and beta coefficient mean the same thing. In the securities industry, coefficient is
                                     ordinarily dropped for purposes of convenience. Beta is used to measure the variability
                                     between a particular stock’s (or portfolio’s) movement and that of the market in general.
                                     A stock with a beta of 1.00 will tend to have a market risk similar to that of the market as
                                     a whole. Most frequently, beta is measured against the Standard & Poor’s 500 composite
                                     index. A stock with a beta of 1.50 will be considerably more volatile than the market; a
                                     stock with a beta of 0.70 will be much less volatile than the market. Although most assets
                                     have a positive beta, it is possible to find some with a negative beta. Assets with a negative
                                     beta can be an important component when diversifying a portfolio. For example, if beta is
                                     −1.2, a 10% up move in the market’s return will cause the stock return to decline by 12%.
                                     On the other hand, if the general market were to suffer a decline, a stock with a negative
                                     beta would generally show positive returns. Know that conservative clients need securities
                                     with low positive betas, whereas aggressive clients will find betas in excess of 1.00 to be
                                     quite suitable. In the next session, we’ll have more to say about beta and systematic risk.


                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                         If the S&P 500 rises or falls by 10%, a stock with a beta of 1 rises or falls by
                                                     about 10%, a stock with a beta of 1.5 rises or falls by about 15%, and a stock
                                                     with a beta of .75 rises or falls by about 7.5%.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 435                                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:03:17 PM
     436        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




             12. 2. 5 ALPHA
                                      For portfolio managers, good news is when they can say that they have generated
                                 positive alpha. Basically, that means that their investment performance is better than what
                                 would have been anticipated, given the risk in terms of volatility that was taken. You may
                                 be asked to compute how much alpha was generated for a particular stock or portfolio.
                                 Alpha can be positive, negative, or zero. If the alpha is negative, then the portfolio is
                                 underperforming the market; if higher, the portfolio is outperforming the market (and the
                                 manager is doing a good job).
                                      The most common formula for computing alpha goes like this:

                                 (total portfolio return – risk-free rate) – (portfolio beta × [market return – risk-free rate])

                                     In essence, what is being done is comparing performance after eliminating the risk-
                                 free rate.
                                     This is one item where it’s easier to understand if we show you the numbers.




                             *
                         EXAMPLE                         Example #1
                                                         Portfolio return 10%
                                                         Risk-free rate 2%
                                                         Market return rate 8%
                                                         Beta 1.2
                                                         The computation of alpha would be:
                                                         (10% – 2%) = 8%. Then (1.2 times [8 – 2]) which is 1.2 × 6 = 7.2. Plug that
                                                    into the formula, giving us 8 – 7.2 or an alpha of .8 (positive alpha)
                                                         Example #2
                                                         Same numbers except the beta is .8
                                                         (10% – 2%) – (.8 × 6) = 8 – 4.8 = positive alpha of +3.2
                                                        Let’s review for a moment. Both portfolios earned the same 12%, but the
                                                    second one did it with a much lower beta—we would not have expected that
                                                    portfolio to do as well as the one with the higher beta (remember, more risk,
                                                    more reward). The fact that it did means the portfolio manager(s) did a great job.
                                                         Example #3
                                                         Same numbers as example #1 except the portfolio returned 9%
                                                         (9% – 2%) – (1.2 × 6) = 7 – 7.2 = alpha of –.2 (negative)
                                                         This portfolio underperformed; for the additional risk taken, it should have
                                                    returned at least 9.2%.
                                                         Take a look in the Glossary to see one additional alpha example.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 436                                                                                                               7/15/2016 2:03:17 PM
                                                                                          Session 12   Methods of Quantitative Analysis      437




                               !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT                It is possible on the exam that you will have an alpha computation where
                                                 the RF (risk-free return) is not given. In that case, the computation is the same,
                                                 but without the RF being subtracted from both the actual return and the market
                                                 return. For example, in our first case, the computation would be 10% – (1.2 ×
                                                 8%) or 10% – 9.6% for an alpha of +.4.



                   12. 2. 6 STANDARD DEVIATION
                                     Standard deviation is a measure of the volatility of an investment’s projected returns,
                                 computed by using historical performance data. Standard deviation is a statistical term
                                 that measures the amount of variability or dispersion around an average. The larger this
                                 dispersion or variability is, the higher the standard deviation. The higher the standard
                                 deviation, the larger the security’s returns are expected to deviate from its average return,
                                 and, hence, the greater the risk.




                             *
                             EXAMPLE                  This simple example should give you a basic understanding of the concept
                                                 behind using standard deviation as a tool to predict price volatility. Let’s compare
                                                 the returns generated by the common stock of two unrelated companies over the
                                                 past three years.

                                                                            2012        2013       2014
                                                          Company A          8%         12%        10%
                                                          Company B          –4%        25%            9%

                                                      For an investor who held shares in Company A for those three years, the
                                                 mean return on investment was 10%. This is calculated, just like any other aver-
                                                 age, by adding together the three annual returns (8 + 12 +10 = 30) and dividing
                                                 that by 3.
                                                      For an investor who held shares in Company B for those three years, the
                                                 mean return on investment was exactly the same 10% (25 + 9 – 4 = 30 ÷ 3).
                                                 However, which one of the shares had a greater dispersion (or variance) from the
                                                 mean? Clearly, Company B’s. You will not have to compute it, but you should be
                                                 able to see from this that Company B would have a much higher standard devia-
                                                 tion (its returns have deviated far greater from the average) than Company A. If
                                                 you were asked on your exam to choose which of these two would be more suit-
                                                 able for the conservative investor (the one who likes to sleep well at night), you’d
                                                 better pick Company A, the one with the lower standard deviation.

                                     Standard deviation is expressed in terms of percentage. It is generally accepted that a
                                 security will vary within one standard deviation about two-thirds of the time and within
                                 two standard deviations about 95% of the time. A standard deviation of 7.5 means that
                                 the return of a stock for a given period may vary by 7.5% above or below its predicted
                                 return about two-thirds of the time and within 15% about 95% of the time.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 437                                                                                                            7/15/2016 2:03:17 PM
     438        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                             *
                         EXAMPLE                        A security has an expected return of 12% and a standard deviation of 5%.
                                                    Investing in a security with an expected 12% return, an investor can expect re-
                                                    turns to range within 7% to 17% about 67% of the time and within 2% to 22%
                                                    about 95% of the time.




                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                        An investor can use standard deviation to compare the risk/reward between
                                                    investments.




                             *
                         EXAMPLE                         If an investor had a choice between an investment that historically returned
                                                    12% with a standard deviation of 6% and another investment that also returned
                                                    12% but had a standard deviation of 10%, the investor would probably choose
                                                    the first one. In effect, he would expect to receive an equal return in the future
                                                    return with less risk.


                                 12. 2. 6. 5. 1 Beta vs. Standard Deviation
                                      Beta is a volatility measure of a security compared with the overall market, measuring
                                 only systematic (market) risk. Standard deviation is a volatility measure of a security
                                 compared with its expected performance and includes both systematic and unsystematic
                                 risk. Another way to put that is that standard deviation measures the total risk of a security
                                 or portfolio.


             12. 2. 7 CORRELATION AND CORRELATION COEFFICIENT
                                     Correlation means that securities move in the same direction. A strong or perfect
                                 correlation means two securities prices move in a perfect positive linear relationship with
                                 each other.




                             *
                         EXAMPLE                         Two securities are correlated if one security’s price rises by 5% and the
                                                    other security’s price then rises by 5%, or if one declines by 4% and the other
                                                    also declines by 4%.

                                      The correlation coefficient is a number that ranges from –1 to +1. Securities that are
                                 perfectly correlated have a correlation coefficient of +1. Securities whose price move-
                                 ments are unrelated to each other have a correlation coefficient of 0. If prices move in
                                 perfectly opposite directions, they are negatively correlated or have a correlation coef-
                                 ficient of –1. Generally speaking, correlation coefficients of .80 and up are considered to
                                 be a very high correlation.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 438                                                                                                               7/15/2016 2:03:17 PM
                                                                                              Session 12   Methods of Quantitative Analysis      439




                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                          Index funds attempt to achieve perfect correlation (+1) with the index they
                                                     are mirroring (e.g., the Standard & Poor’s 500). The goal of an index fund man-
                                                     ager is to come as close as possible to matching the performance of the underly-
                                                     ing index. It is not a goal to exceed the performance, only to match it.




                                  !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT                    One of the best ways to increase the diversification of a portfolio is to in-
                                                     clude investments with a negative correlation. The logic is that those negatively
                                                     correlated assets will go up when the rest of the portfolio is going down. One of
                                                     the best examples of a negatively correlated asset is an investment in gold stocks.
                                                     Bonds frequently have a negative correlation as well which is one of the reasons
                                                     for creating a balanced allocation.




                   12. 3         MARKET PRICE RELATED RATIOS



                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                          The Series 66 exam will not contain any computations regarding the follow-
                                                     ing items, but there will be references in questions to the P/E ratio and price-to-
                                                     book ratio. So, understanding their significance is necessary to be able to answer
                                                     those questions correctly.



                   12. 3. 1 PRICE TO EARNINGS RATIO (P/E)
                                         The widely used price-to-earnings (PE) ratio provides investors with a rough idea of
                                     the relationship between the prices of different common stocks compared with the earn-
                                     ings that accrue to one share of stock:
                                                                      current market price of common share
                                                         PE ratio =
                                                                            earnings per share (EPS)

                                         Growth companies usually have higher PE ratios than do cyclical companies. Investors
                                     are willing to pay more per dollar of current earnings if a company’s future earnings are
                                     expected to be dramatically higher than earnings for stocks that rise and fall with business
                                     cycles. Companies subject to cyclical fluctuations generally sell at lower PEs; declining
                                     industries sell at still lower PEs. Investors should beware of extremely high or extremely
                                     low PEs. Speculative stocks often sell at one extreme or the other.
                                         If a stock’s market price and PE ratio are known, the earnings per share can be calcu-
                                     lated as follows:
                                                                    current market price of common stock
                                                           EPS =
                                                                                  PE ratio




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 439                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:03:17 PM
     440        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                        A company’s stock trades for $30 per share and has earnings of $1.50 per
                                                    share. It has a PE (multiple) of 20 ($30 ÷ 1.5 = 20). If the average PE of the
                                                    company’s industry is 11, this stock is high priced. If the average PE is 35, this
                                                    company is low priced.




                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                        Some fundamental analysts feel that the company’s sales to earnings ratio
                                                    is more valuable than the PE ratio because different accounting methods can
                                                    impact earnings much more than sales.



             12. 3. 2 PRICE-TO-BOOK RATIO
                                       The price-to-book ratio reflects the market price of the common stock relative to its
                                 book value per share. We can use the book value (as computed in the previous session)
                                 and compare it to the market price of the common stock to evaluate the relationship
                                 between what investors consider the value of the stock to what the stock would be worth
                                 if it liquidated.
                                       In session 16, we will discuss the growth versus value argument, and you will see that
                                 growth proponents look for a high price-to-book ratio while value investors seek compa-
                                 nies with a low price-to-book ratio.



                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                        A company whose common stock sells for $50 per share has a book value of
                                                    $5 per share. Its price-to-book ratio is 10 ($50 ÷ 5 = 10).
                                                         A quick rundown of the most testable points about ratios follows.

                                                         ■■ Book value is the company’s theoretical liquidation value expressed on a
                                                            per share of common stock basis.

                                                         ■■ Speculative companies typically have very high or very low PE ratios.

                                                         ■■ Growth companies have higher PE ratios than do cyclical or defensive
                                                            companies.

                                                         ■■ Earnings per share relates only to common stock; it assumes preferred
                                                            dividends were paid.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 440                                                                                                               7/15/2016 2:03:17 PM
                                                                                     Session 12   Methods of Quantitative Analysis      441




                             Q
                       QUICK QUIZ 12.B   1.   Over a specified time period, the S&P 500 has returned 18%. The manager
                                              of a conservative growth portfolio with a beta of .8 reports a return of 16%
                                              for that same time period. Assuming a risk-free rate of 4%, the managed
                                              portfolio’s alpha was
                                              A.   –2.0
                                              B.   –1.6
                                              C.   +0.8
                                              D.   +2.0

                                         2.   One of your clients has a portfolio that has a correlation of .91 with the
                                              overall market. A stock with which correlation coefficient would most likely
                                              offer the greatest diversification to this client?
                                              A.   .91
                                              B.   .51
                                              C.   .01
                                              D.   –.51

                                         3.   RMBN common stock is currently selling for $60, which gives the stock a P/E
                                              ratio of 20:1. Based on that information, the earnings per share are
                                              A.   $2.00
                                              B.   $3.00
                                              C.   $5.00
                                              D.   $20.00

                                         4.   Which of the following statements regarding the market price of a common
                                              stock is accurate?
                                              A.   It can sell at a price above its book value.
                                              B.   It can sell at a price equal to its book value.
                                              C.   It can sell at a price below its book value.
                                              D.   Any of these would be possible.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 441                                                                                                       7/15/2016 2:03:17 PM
       442         Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




             Q U I C K               Q U I Z           A N S W E R S

        Quick Quiz 12.A.                                                     2. D.   Adding securities with a negative correlation
                                                                                     tends to increase the diversification of a
           1. B.       Present value is the amount deposited to                      portfolio.
                       meet a future goal based on an expected
                       rate of return. If the return is higher than          3. B.   The price-to-earnings ratio compares the
                       expected, the ending result will be greater (a                market price to the earnings per share of
                       good thing).                                                  common. What this question is telling us
                                                                                     is that the $60 price is 20 times the EPS.
           2. A.       This is what the future value computation is                  Divide $60 by 20 and we arrive at $3.00 per
                       used for. We take a sum of money available                    share.
                       now, consider the time the money will be
                       invested, estimate a rate of return, and arrive       4. D.   Book value per share is unrelated to the
                       at the expected value (assuming the earnings                  market price, so any of the choices could be
                       are equal to the estimated rate).                             true.

           3. A.       When a true average return is shown, that is
                       the arithmetic mean. The median return (the
                       number in the middle of the group of three)
                       is 10%, and the range is 19% (–4 to +15).

        Quick Quiz 12.B.

           1. C.       The formula is (portfolio return – RF rate) –
                       (beta × [market return – RF rate). Plugging
                       in the numbers, we have 16% – 4% = 12.
                       Then .8 × [18% – 4%] or .8 × 14%, which
                       equals 11.2%. The final step is 12 – 11.2,
                       giving us a positive alpha of .8. Using these
                       numbers, some find it easier to compare
                       80% of the market return (after removing
                       the risk-free rate) to the actual return, once
                       again, after the RF rate. In this case, it would
                       be 80% of 14 (that is 11.2) compared to 12
                       (16% – 4%). We get the same alpha of .8 this
                       way as well.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 442                                                                                                           7/15/2016 2:03:17 PM
                             13
                             Types of Investment
                             Risks


                             T
                                     he quantitative concepts discussed thus far are measures of risk of a
                                     security or portfolio. The concepts discussed in this session are types
                                     of risk that both businesses and investors bear. Though not a compre-
                             hensive list, they are among the most common.
                                  Although we routinely use the term risk, we often have difficulty defin-
                             ing it precisely. In finance, risk is defined as the uncertainty that an invest-
                             ment will earn its expected rate of return. There are two basic categories of
                             risk, systematic and unsystematic. We will address both of them and their
                             subcategories one at a time.
                                  The Series 66 exam will include approximately 1 question on the mate-
                             rial presented in this session. ■




                                                                                                            443




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 443                                                                            7/15/2016 2:03:18 PM
            OBJECTIVES


                                 When you have completed this session, you should be able to:

                             ■■ explain the difference between systematic and unsystematic risk;

                             ■■ identify the types of risks faced by investors; and

                             ■■ list the sequence of priority of claims in the event of a corporate liquidation.




      444




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 444                                                                                         7/15/2016 2:03:18 PM
                                                                                                       Session 13   Types of Investment Risks      445




                   13. 1         SYSTEMATIC RISK
                                         Systematic risk is the risk in the return of an investment that is associated with the
                                     macroeconomic factors that affect all risky assets. Stated another way, systematic risk is
                                     the risk that changes in the overall economy will have an adverse effect on individual
                                     securities regardless of the company’s circumstances. It is generally caused by factors that
                                     affect all businesses, such as war, global security threats, or inflation. Primary examples
                                     would include market risk, interest rate risk, and purchasing power risk, each of which
                                     will be dealt with separately. You might also see this referred to as non-diversifiable risk
                                     because, as we’ll learn, systematic risk cannot be avoided through diversification.


                   13. 1. 1 MARKET RISK
                                          The first example of systematic risk that generally comes to mind is market risk. When
                                     the market tanks, virtually all securities lose value. This is a classic example of a non-diver-
                                     sifiable risk because, regardless of the number of different stocks in your portfolio, when
                                     you encounter a stock market such as we had from late 2007 until early 2009, chances
                                     are most of those assets will have declined in price. In the previous session, we discussed
                                     correlation. One way to protect against market risk is to have some negatively correlated
                                     securities in your portfolio. Remember, they go up when the others go down.



                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                          Market risk is measured by a security’s beta.




                               *
                              EXAMPLE                     Should a war break out between two major oil-producing countries, the
                                                      stock market could decline dramatically. The stocks of individual companies
                                                      would likely decline as well, regardless of whether the war directly affected their
                                                      businesses.




                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                           Market risk cannot be diversified away. However, two strategies that might
                                                      be used are (1) buy put options on a broad index, such as the S&P 500 (remem-
                                                      ber, put options become profitable when the underlying asset falls in price), or
                                                      (2) sell short an ETF based on a broad index (remember, selling short generates a
                                                      profit when the security falls in price). Furthermore, the longer the investor’s time
                                                      horizon, the better one is able to absorb market risk.



                   13. 1. 2 INTEREST RATE RISK
                                         Interest rates fluctuate in the market all the time. If market conditions or the Federal
                                     Reserve push interest rates higher, the market price of all bonds will be affected. When
                                     interest rates rise, the market price of bonds falls and that is why this is a systematic risk.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 445                                                                                                                  7/15/2016 2:03:19 PM
     446        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                 This risk is sometimes referred to as the market risk for bonds. Rising interest rates can be
                                 bearish for some common stock prices as well, particularly those of highly leveraged com-
                                 panies such as public utilities. Having a diversified portfolio of bonds won’t help because
                                 an increase in interest rates will cause all bonds to decline in price. In the next unit, we’ll
                                 discuss three strategies that may be used to reduce interest rate risk.



                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                          Interest rate risk is intrinsic to all types of fixed-income investments, whether
                                                    from an emerging market issuer or a triple-A issuer. It is the risk that a debt secu-
                                                    rity’s value will decline as a result of an increase in market interest rates.




                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                         The longer the duration, the greater the interest rate risk.




                             *
                         EXAMPLE                         If the Federal Reserve increases interest rates dramatically, the market price
                                                    of all bonds, regardless of credit quality, will decline. Likewise, the stock market
                                                    could decline as a result of portfolio managers adjusting their valuation models to
                                                    reflect the revised interest rate environment.


                   13. 1. 2. 1 Reinvestment Risk
                                     A variation of interest rate risk is reinvestment risk. There is reinvestment risk as to
                                 interest and reinvestment risk as to principal.
                                     An investor receiving a periodic cash flow from an investment, such as interest on a
                                 debt security, may be unable to reinvest the income at the same rate as the security itself
                                 is paying. For example, if an investor purchased a bond with a 10% coupon and several
                                 years later comparable securities were only paying 7%, the investor would not be able to
                                 compound the investment at the original rate. Zero-coupon bonds avoid this risk because
                                 there is nothing to reinvest.
                                     This risk also occurs at maturity. If the fixed income investor was enjoying a 10%
                                 return on the above bond, when it matured, the investor was only able to reinvest the
                                 principal in a 7% security.


             13. 1. 3 INFLATION RISK (PURCHASING POWER RISK)
                                     This is another systematic risk. Inflation reduces the buying power of a dollar (or
                                 whatever currency is used where you live). A modest amount of inflation is inherent in a
                                 healthy, growing economy, but uncontrolled inflation causes uncertainty among individ-
                                 ual investors as well as corporate managers attempting to evaluate potential returns from
                                 projects. Treasury Inflation Protection Securities are one investment vehicle designed to
                                 protect against inflation risk.
                                     Fixed income securities are the most vulnerable to this risk; equity securities are his-
                                 torically the least susceptible.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 446                                                                                                                    7/15/2016 2:03:19 PM
                                                                                                    Session 13   Types of Investment Risks      447




                             *
                             EXAMPLE                   As we stated, purchasing power risk is a systematic risk, meaning that diver-
                                                  sifying your portfolio is of little or no help. Let’s assume that an individual nearing
                                                  retirement took $1 million and, seeking income with safety, invested $100,000
                                                  into each of 10 different corporate bonds, all maturing in 20 years. For sure,
                                                  this diversification does give protection against financial risk (if one of the bonds
                                                  defaults due to bankruptcy of the issuer, the other nine should still pay off). How-
                                                  ever, if the cost of living rises, 20 years from now, when each of those bonds pays
                                                  back the $100,000 principal, the investor will have $1 million, but how much will
                                                  that $1 million purchase compared to what it would have 20 years earlier?




                               !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT                Because inflation is a global issue, not just confined to the United States and
                                                  our dollar, a universal definition would be “a decrease in the value of the mon-
                                                  etary unit.”




                   13. 2      UNSYSTEMATIC RISK
                                     Unlike systematic risk which is nondiversifiable, these risks can be reduced through
                                 diversification. They are risks that are unique to the specific industry or business enterprise
                                 and would include things such as labor union strikes, lawsuits, and product failure. We will
                                 cover the most testable examples below.


                   13. 2. 1 BUSINESS RISK
                                     This is an operating risk, generally caused by poor management decisions (e.g., Edsel,
                                 New Coke, or more recently, RIMM failing to pay attention to the success of the iPhone—
                                 remember when everybody had to have a Blackberry?). At best, earnings are lowered; at
                                 worst, the company goes out of business and common stockholders probably lose their
                                 entire investment.


                   13. 2. 2 FINANCIAL RISK
                                     Often confused with business risk (it is similar), financial risk relates primarily to those
                                 companies that use debt financing (leverage). An inability to meet those debt obligations
                                 could lead to bankruptcy and, once again, total loss for the stockholders. For that reason,
                                 this is sometimes called credit risk or default risk.



                               !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                     Unsystematic risk can be minimized through portfolio diversification. For
                                                  example, a client long 1,000 shares of XYZ selling those shares and investing the




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 447                                                                                                               7/15/2016 2:03:19 PM
     448        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                                    proceeds into an S&P Index fund eliminates (or greatly reduces) business risk (but
                                                    not market risk). In similar fashion, owning a diversified portfolio of bonds, such
                                                    as is offered in a bond fund, offers protection against financial risk.




                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT                       Business risk is highest for investors whose portfolios contain stock in only
                                                    one issuer or in lower rated bonds.



             13. 2. 3 REGULATORY RISK
                                      A sudden change in the regulatory climate can have a dramatic effect on the perfor-
                                 mance or risk of a business and entire business sectors. Overreaching bureaucrats and court
                                 judgments that change the rules a business must comply with can devastate individual
                                 companies and industries almost overnight. A very common example of this is rulings by
                                 the EPA (Environmental Protection Agency), which can sometime play havoc with the
                                 oil and gas industry.


             13. 2. 4 LEGISLATIVE RISK
                                     It is common to lump together regulatory and legislative risk, but there is a difference.
                                 Whereas regulatory risk comes from a change to regulations, legislative risk results from a
                                 change in the law. And, because there is frequently a political agenda behind legislation,
                                 this risk is sometimes referred to as political risk, although most consider political risk to
                                 be of its own making. A governmental agency, state or federal, may pass certain regula-
                                 tions, but only a legislature can pass a law. Changes to the tax code are the most obvious
                                 legislative risks.


             13. 2. 5 POLITICAL RISK
                                      It might seem like we are splitting hairs here, but each of these, although potentially
                                 interrelated, does have a different basis in the source of the risk. In the case of political
                                 risk, most attribute this to potential instability in the political underpinnings of the coun-
                                 try (think of a coup). This is particularly true in emerging economies, but, as history has
                                 shown, political insurrections can occur even in highly developed societies.


                   13. 2. 5. 1 Sovereign Risk
                                     Sovereign risk ratings capture the risk of a country defaulting on its commercial debt
                                 obligations. Headlines were made several years ago when the credit rating of the United
                                 States was reduced from AAA (at the time of this printing, the United States was back up
                                 to AAA). That is an example of the perceived increased sovereign risk that existed at the
                                 time. More recent examples with Greece point out that even countries can have difficulty
                                 paying their obligations.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 448                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:03:19 PM
                                                                                                 Session 13   Types of Investment Risks      449




                        13. 2. 5. 2 Country Risk
                                     Country risk monitors the political and economic stability of countries. Country risk
                                 evaluates the total investment risk of a country, such as risk of default on a bond, risk of
                                 losing direct investment, risk to global business dealings, and so forth, by both qualitative
                                 and quantitative values. As an example, one would give the qualitative factors a 70%
                                 weighting and combine it with three basic quantitative values (30% weighting). Typical
                                 factors included in the ranking of countries by risk:
                                 ■■ Qualitative
                                     —— Political risk—30%
                                     —— Economic performance/projections—30%
                                    —— Structural assessment—10%
                                 ■■ Quantitative
                                     —— Debt indicators—10%
                                     —— Credit ratings—10%
                                     —— Access to bank finance/capital markets—10%




                             *
                             EXAMPLE                   Investments that could be affected by regulatory changes include so-called
                                                 “green” industries (and those that tend to pollute), oil and gas exploration,
                                                 airlines, and pharmaceutical manufacturers. The most common regulatory risk
                                                 comes from governmental agency attempts to control or influence product prices
                                                 or the competitive structure of a particular industry through the passage and
                                                 enforcement of regulations.




                             *
                             EXAMPLE                   An example of legislative risk is how the domestic boat-building business in
                                                 the United States was nearly wiped out in the early 1990s after the government
                                                 instituted a luxury tax for yacht purchases.




                             *
                             EXAMPLE                 A recent example of political risk was the actions of the Chavez govern-
                                                 ment in Venezuela several years ago, where nationalization took place in many
                                                 industries from cement to supermarkets. Those investors in what where previ-
                                                 ously privately owned (not government) businesses saw much, if not all, of their
                                                 investment lost.



                   13. 2. 6       LIQUIDITY RISK
                                     Liquidity measures the speed or ease of converting an investment into cash without
                                 causing a price disruption. Liquidity risk is the risk that when an investor wishes to dis-
                                 pose of an investment, no one will be willing to buy it, or that a very large purchase or sale




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 449                                                                                                            7/15/2016 2:03:19 PM
     450        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                 would not be possible at the current price. Although there is technically a difference, for
                                 exam purposes, you may also refer to this as marketability risk.




                             *
                         EXAMPLE                         The Treasury bill market is a highly liquid market because investors can sell
                                                    a Treasury bill within seconds at the quoted prices. Real estate investments,
                                                    however, can take months or years to sell if you want to get close to your asking
                                                    price. The longer it takes to convert an investment into cash without having a fire
                                                    sale, the greater the liquidity risk.




                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                        Listed stocks and mutual funds have virtually no liquidity risk. Thinly traded
                                                    stocks, many municipal bonds, and most tangible assets have a greater degree of
                                                    inability to liquidate rapidly at your price.



             13. 2. 7 OPPORTUNITY COST
                                     Opportunity cost is the foregone return, or the return given up, on an alternative
                                 investment. In economic terms, opportunity cost is defined as the highest valued alterna-
                                 tive that must be sacrificed as a result of choosing among alternatives. More simply, one
                                 can invest in short-term Treasury bills incurring virtually no risk. That is the risk-free
                                 alternative that can be earned by basically doing nothing. Any return that deviates from
                                 the risk-free return represents your opportunity gained or lost.




                             *
                         EXAMPLE                        The 90-day Treasury bill is currently yielding 6%. An investor decides to pur-
                                                    chase a stock with an expected return of 11%. If that stock actually returns 2%,
                                                    the opportunity cost is 4% (6% − 2%) because that is the rate that the investor
                                                    gave up, risk free, to assume the risk of investing in the alternative choice.




                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT                        You may need to know that the three primary systematic risks are:
                                                         ■■ market;

                                                         ■■ interest rate; and

                                                         ■■ inflation or purchasing power.
                                                         And, there are five primary unsystematic risks:
                                                         ■■ Business

                                                         ■■ Financial

                                                         ■■ Liquidity

                                                         ■■ Political

                                                         ■■ Regulatory




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 450                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:03:19 PM
                                                                                                  Session 13   Types of Investment Risks      451




                   13. 3     CURRENCY OR EXCHANGE RATE RISK
                                    Purchasers of foreign securities, whether through direct ownership or ADRs, face the
                               uncertainty that the value of either the foreign currency or the domestic currency will
                               fluctuate. For example, as of the date of publication, the euro is down almost 35% against
                               the U.S. dollar in the past 12 months. As a result, someone who invested one year ago
                               in the stock of a company domiciled in the eurozone will find that, even if the stock has
                               remained level or slightly higher on its local market, in terms of dollars, the value has
                               fallen.



                             !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT             On an individual level, the exam may even ask you about exchange rates
                                              and vacationers. For example, you take a trip to Country A and purchase a dinner
                                              on your credit card for 200 units of the local currency. Then, on the final night
                                              of your stay, you go to the same restaurant, order the same meal and, once
                                              again, the bill is for 200 units. When you get home, you check your credit card
                                              statement and see that you were billed $100 for the first meal and $110 for the
                                              second. What happened? The value of the foreign currency rose against the U.S.
                                              dollar from $.50 ($100/200) to $.55 ($110/200). Even though no prices changed
                                              in the foreign country, you encountered currency risk.




                             Q
                       QUICK QUIZ 13.A

                                              ____
                                                   True or False?

                                                        1.	Market risk (systematic risk) is the risk associated with the specific
                                                            business decisions of a company’s manager.

                                              ____      2.	The term risk refers to the uncertainty that an investment will earn
                                                            less than its historical return.

                                              ____      3.	Regulatory risk is the risk that the regulatory environment in which a
                                                            company operates will change as a result of legislation.

                                              ____      4.	Standard deviation is a measure of inflationary pressures on the per-
                                                            formance of a company.

                                              5.   All of the following risks are considered diversifiable EXCEPT
                                                   A.    currency risk
                                                   B.    liquidity risk
                                                   C.    purchasing power risk
                                                   D.    sovereign risk

                                              Quick Quiz answers can be found at the end of the session.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 451                                                                                                             7/15/2016 2:03:19 PM
     452        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




             13. 4           CAPITAL STRUCTURE/LIQUIDATION PRIORITY

                                     As discussed in a previous session of this unit, a corporation’s capital structure is the
                                 way it raises its capital. Think of it like the building blocks of the company. All corpora-
                                 tions build the base, as it were, with common stock. They may, or may not issue preferred
                                 stock. If they wish to employ leverage, they will borrow money by issuing debt securities.
                                 Those securities may be issued with collateral, such as a mortgage bond, or merely on the
                                 general credit of the issuer (a debenture). In terms of looking at risks, it is critical to under-
                                 stand where the investor’s position is in the event of a bankruptcy.
                                     When examining the capital structure of a corporation, it is important to know the
                                 liquidation priority:
                                 ■■ Secured creditors (e.g., mortgage bonds, equipment trust certificates, collateral trust
                                     bonds)
                                 ■■ Unsecured creditors (e.g., general creditors including debenture holders)
                                 ■■ Subordinated debt holders
                                 ■■ Preferred stockholders
                                 ■■ Common stockholders

                                     In addition, the exam may want you to know about the priority of items that are not
                                 securities. Even though they are not legally considered secured assets, highest priority is
                                 given to wages (up to an indexed amount earned in the 180 days prior to the employer’s
                                 declaration of bankruptcy) followed by taxes.
                                     Regardless of how low on the totem pole a debt security is, such as a subordinated
                                 debenture, it still has priority in terms of payment of interest and principal ahead of any
                                 equity security. Look for a question asking, in essence, “In the event of a corporate liquida-
                                 tion, who comes first: A senior, prior lien preferred stock or a junior, unsecured subordi-
                                 nated debenture?” Now, you may not see all of those adjectives, but no matter what, a debt
                                 security always has priority over an equity security.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 452                                                                                                            7/15/2016 2:03:19 PM
                                                                                              Session 13   Types of Investment Risks       453




                        Q U I C K          Q U I Z          A N S W E R S

                   Quick Quiz 13.A                                               4. F.   Standard deviation is a measure of an
                                                                                         investment’s volatility. It measures the
                      1. F.   Market risk is systematic risk, or the risk that           amount of variance in price or returns from
                              the overall market will have an adverse effect             the investment’s mean return during an
                              on a security independent of the company’s                 expected period.
                              circumstances.
                                                                                 5. C.   Purchasing power risk, also known as
                      2. F.   In finance, the term risk is defined as the                inflation risk, is a systematic risk and, as
                              uncertainty that an investment will earn its               such, is one that cannot generally be lessened
                              expected rate of return.                                   through diversification.

                      3. F.   Regulatory risk is the risk a company faces
                              that the rules of the game will change as a
                              result of new regulations, not legislation.
                              Remember, regulations are written by
                              government or other agencies while
                              legislation is done by a political body, usually
                              one that has been elected rather than
                              appointed.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 453                                                                                                             7/15/2016 2:03:19 PM
Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 454   7/15/2016 2:03:19 PM
                                                                                                                 Unit 3 Unit Test       455




                        U N I T        T E S T

                     1. Which of these is a definition of inflation?            5. The present value of a dollar
                        A. A decrease in consumer demand                           A. is the amount of goods and services the dollar
                        B. An increase in the value of the dollar                     will buy in the future at today’s rate price level
                        C. An increase in purchasing power                         B. indicates how much needs to be invested
                        D. A decrease in the value of the monetary unit               today at a given interest rate to equal a specific
                                                                                      cash value in the future
                     2. Balance sheets contain                                     C. is equal to its future value if the level of
                        A. gross revenues for the year                                interest rates stays the same
                        B. the amount of cash and cash equivalents                 D. cannot be calculated without knowing the
                            expended during the first half of the fiscal year         level of inflation
                            as opposed to the second half
                        C. the net worth of the firm at the end of the          6. The terms mean, median, and mode are all measures
                            reporting period                                       of
                        D. no reference to the accounting methods used             A. beta coefficient
                            to construct the balance sheet                         B. central tendency
                                                                                   C. correlation coefficient
                     3. If a publicly traded corporation was going to sell a       D. standard deviation
                        wholly-owned subsidiary, the information would
                        be made available through the filing of a Form          7. One of the most common uses of the net present
                        A. 8-K                                                     value calculation is for
                        B. 10-K                                                    A. a parent to compute the amount needed for
                        C. 10-Q                                                        education funding
                        D. 13-F                                                    B. a corporation to determine the feasibility of
                                                                                       investing in new capital equipment
                     4. The future value of an invested dollar is depen-           C. an investment adviser to compute the
                        dent on                                                        expected returns from a portfolio
                         I. the exchange rate of the dollar at the                 D. determining how close a stock’s return is to
                            beginning and end of the period                            the efficient frontier
                        II. the interest rate at maturity
                       III. the rate of return it earns                         8. All of the following statements regarding an
                       IV. the time period over which it is invested               investment’s internal rate of return (IRR) are true
                                                                                   EXCEPT
                        A. I only
                        B. II only                                                 A. IRR expresses the rate of interest that matches
                        C. II and III                                                  the initial investment with the present value
                        D. III and IV                                                  of future cash flows
                                                                                   B. investments are acceptable when their
                                                                                       internal rates of return exceed the investor’s
                                                                                       required rate of return
                                                                                   C. IRR cannot be calculated for investments with
                                                                                       uneven cash flows
                                                                                   D. IRR is the one rate of return that results in an
                                                                                       investment having a net present value (NPV)
                                                                                       of 0




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 455                                                                                                          7/15/2016 2:03:19 PM
        456        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition



          9. The risk to bondholders that bonds may lose value               13. In October 1987, ABC Manufacturing Company
             during periods of increasing inflation is known as                  showed a strong balance sheet. Nevertheless, its
             A. credit risk                                                      stock lost 15 points in the “crash of 1987.” This is
             B. reinvestment risk                                                an example of
             C. marketability risk                                               A. business risk
             D. interest rate risk                                               B. beta
                                                                                 C. opportunity risk
        10. Your client has $10,000 to invest today and                          D. market risk
            expects to earn an after-tax return of 8% to send
            his daughter to college in 12 years. Which of the                14. The risk of not being able to convert an invest-
            following is needed to determine whether the                         ment into cash at a time when cash is needed is
            investment is likely to satisfy the client’s goal?                   what type of risk?
            A. Present value                                                     A. Legislative
            B. Expected cost of college                                          B. Liquidity
            C. Consumer Price Index                                              C. Market
            D. Client’s marginal federal income tax bracket                      D. Reinvestment

        11. What happens to outstanding fixed-income securi-                 15. Which of the following are considered unsystem-
            ties when interest rates decline?                                    atic risks?
            A. Yields go up                                                         I. Business
            B. Coupon rates go up                                                 II. Liquidity
            C. Prices go up                                                      III. Market
            D. No change                                                         IV. Purchasing power
                                                                                 A. I and II
        12. Which of the following describe nonsystematic risk?                  B. I and III
              I. The risk that an individual stock will not                      C. II and IV
                 perform well                                                    D. III and IV
             II. The same as market risk
            III. Can be diversified to lower risk
            IV. Cannot be diversified to lower risk
            A. I and III
            B. I and IV
            C. II and III
            D. II and IV




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 456                                                                                                              7/15/2016 2:03:19 PM
                                                                                                   Unit 3 Answers and Rationales       457




                          A N S W E R S             A N D        R A T I O N A L E S

                     1. D. We tend to think solely in terms of our             7.   B. Net present value is frequently used in
                           dollar, but inflation can occur worldwide                   capital budgeting to determine which of
                           and leads to a decrease in the purchasing                   several projects makes the most economic
                           power (or value) of the monetary unit in                    sense. By evaluating future cash flows
                           use in any particular jurisdiction. Inflation               against initial outlay, the projects with a
                           is commonly caused by increased consumer                    positive NPV are those that are most likely
                           demand, not a decrease.                                     to offer financial reward.

                     2. C. The balance sheet provides a snapshot               8. C. IRR is the rate of interest that equates
                           view of the financial condition of the                    the initial investment with the present
                           firm at the end of the reporting period. It               value of future cash flows; it is the rate of
                           does not provide information on the flow                  return that results in an investment having
                           of expenses, revenues, and cash during                    a net present value of 0. It is possible,
                           the reporting period. Gross revenues                      although very difficult, to calculate IRR for
                           are reflected on the income statement,                    investments with uneven cash flows such as
                           not on the balance sheet. The balance                     common stocks.
                           sheet provides a description of the assets,
                           liabilities, and owner’s equity at the end          9. D. Interest rate risk is the risk that as interest
                           of the reporting period. References to                    rates rise, bond prices fall. Periods of
                           accounting methods used are contained in                  inflation are accompanied by rising interest
                           the footnotes of the balance sheet.                       rates. Another risk in this scenario is
                                                                                     purchasing power risk; each semiannual
                     3. A. The Form 8-K is filed with the SEC within                 interest payment has less purchasing
                           4 business days of any one of a number of                 power due to inflation, and, of course,
                           significant actions, including the sale of a              the purchasing power of the principal at
                           significant asset such as a wholly-owned                  maturity will be far less as well.
                           subsidiary.
                                                                              10.   B. To determine whether the investment will
                     4. D. The future value of a dollar reflects the                   satisfy the goal, the investment adviser
                           interest rate it earns over time. The rate of               representative needs to know the amount
                           foreign exchange is not related to or used                  needed to pay for college. The information
                           in the calculation of the future value of a                 we have here will allow us to compute the
                           dollar. The foreign exchange rate is not                    future value: $25,181.70. This may not be
                           relevant.                                                   enough to pay for even 1 year of college
                                                                                       12 years from now.
                     5.      B. The present value of a dollar will indicate
                                how much needs to be invested today at a      11. C. When interest rates drop, prices will rise,
                                given interest rate to equal a cash amount           decreasing effective yield. Thus, there is an
                                required in the future.                              inverse relationship between interest rates
                                                                                     and bond prices.
                     6.      B. Central tendency is usually defined as the
                                center or middle of a distribution. The
                                three most common tools used are mean,
                                median, and mode.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 457                                                                                                         7/15/2016 2:03:19 PM
        458        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition



        12. A. Nonsystematic risk is company risk, the                       14.   B. Liquidity risk is the measure of how quickly
               risk that an individual investment will                                and easily a security can be converted
               perform poorly. Systematic risk is market                              to cash. Legislative risk is a measure of
               risk, the risk that the market will perform                            how legal changes (e.g., taxes) affect an
               poorly, dragging one’s portfolio along                                 investment. Market risk is a measure of the
               with it. Diversification will remove most                              volatility of a stock or the risk of loss as a
               nonsystematic risk. The more stocks owned,                             result of market changes. Reinvestment risk
               the lower the risk that a poor performer will                          is the risk that an investor will not be able
               jeopardize the overall value of the portfolio.                         to reinvest interest payments on a bond at
                                                                                      the original rate during the life of the bond.
        13. D. Market risk is the risk that a specific stock’s
               price will be driven by factors largely                       15. A. Included in the listing of unsystematic
               independent of its issuer. Business risk is                          risks are business, liquidity, political, and
               unique to each business entity. Beta is a                            regulatory. Market and purchasing power
               measure of a stock’s volatility relative to                          risk are systematic.
               the overall market. The question does not
               refer to the volatility or sensitivity of the
               stock to the overall market. Opportunity
               risk is not among the recognized sources of
               risk. Opportunity cost is a term in economics
               that refers to the return given up in order to
               invest in another instrument or project.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 458                                                                                                             7/15/2016 2:03:19 PM
                             Unit 4
                             Client Investment
                             Recommendations and
                             Strategies
                                       This unit consists of eight sessions
                                       Session 14 Type of Client
                                       Session 15 Client Profile
                                       Session 16 Portfolio Management Styles, Strategies, and Techniques
                                       Session 17 Tax Considerations
                                       Session 18 Trading Securities
                                       Session 19 Performance Measures
                                       Session 20 Retirement Plans and Educational Funding Programs
                                       In total there will be 30 questions on this material, representing 30% of
                                   the Series 66 Exam.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 459                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:03:19 PM
Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 460   7/15/2016 2:03:19 PM
                             14
                             Type of Client


                             W
                                           hen an individual account is opened, it is registered in the
                                           name(s) of one or more individuals; they are the account own-
                                           ers and the only individuals allowed access to and control of the
                             investments in the account. Generally, any competent person of majority
                             age can open an account, and anyone declared legally incompetent cannot.
                             Fiduciary or custodial accounts may be opened for minors or legally incom-
                             petent individuals.
                                 In addition to individuals, accounts may be opened for anyone else
                             meeting the definition of a person. That would include business and govern-
                             ment entities. Some of these would be considered institutional accounts as
                             defined in Unit 1.
                                 The Series 66 Exam will include 5 questions on the material covered in
                             this session. ■




                                                                                                           461




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 461                                                                           7/15/2016 2:03:20 PM
            OBJECTIVES


                                 When you have completed this session, you should be able to:

                             ■■ recognize the different types of clients securities professionals service

                             ■■ distinguish between the different kinds of business entities capable of opening accounts

                             ■■ explain the special requirements for trust and estate accounts




      462




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 462                                                                                       7/15/2016 2:03:20 PM
                                                                                                             Session 14   Type of Client      463




                   14. 0         NEW ACCOUNT AGREEMENT

                                          Opening an account requires the completion of the new account agreement. This is
                                     basi­cally a contract between the broker-dealer or investment adviser and the customer
                                     explaining the rights and obliga­tions of both and the charges for the services that will be
                                     rendered. Information that must be obtained from the client includes items such as:
                                     ■■ legal capacity—that is, is the client of full legal age in the state or jurisdiction or resi-
                                          dence, and does she have the capacity to enter into the agreement;
                                     ■■ employment information; and
                                     ■■ the Customer Identification Program (CIP) notice. In order to help the government
                                          fight the funding of terrorism and money laundering activities, broker-dealers and
                                          investment advisers are required by federal law to obtain, verify, and record informa-
                                          tion that identifies each person who opens an account. That information includes:
                                         —— name,
                                         —— date of birth,
                                         —— permanent physical address (no mail receiving or incorporation services),
                                         —— identification number (if a U.S. citizen, this is typically the Social Security number),
                                         —— citizenship or visa details, and
                                         —— financial information about the client.



                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                          The CIP comes from the USA PATRIOT Act and applies to both individual
                                                      and business accounts.




                   14. 1         INDIVIDUAL ACCOUNT
                                          An individual account may be for a person, a trust, or a deceased person through
                                     an estate account. There is one beneficial owner. When referring to investment advis-
                                     ers, normally an individual client is a natural person whose investments are managed by
                                     an adviser for a fee. When a business is organized as a sole proprietorship, that business
                                     account is also considered an individual account. The adviser should establish, in consul-
                                     tation with the client, a written statement of objectives and investment strategy before
                                     making recommendations to the client. This document is frequently referred to as an
                                     Investment Policy Statement (IPS). In the next Session, we will examine the client profile
                                     and see the information necessary to prepare the IPS. In Session 20, we will discuss the use
                                     of the IPS by those with fiduciary responsibility over qualified retirement plans.
                                          The adviser must periodically review the client’s investment profile to determine
                                     whether any changes in circumstances could alter the client’s objectives.
                                          Unless certain legal documents are procured, the account holder is the only person
                                     who can:
                                     ■■ control the investments within the account; or
                                     ■■ request distributions of cash or securities from the account.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 463                                                                                                             7/15/2016 2:03:20 PM
     464        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




             14. 1. 1 SUITABILITY FOR INDIVIDUAL ACCOUNTS
                                      Both federal and state regulations require that any investment recommendation be
                                 suitable based upon the client’s needs, objectives, and financial considerations. In the next
                                 session, we will look at a number of those issues.



             14. 2           JOINT ACCOUNTS
                                      A joint account is owned by two or more persons, and each is allowed control over the
                                 account. Generally, suitability information is required on all of the tenants in the account.
                                      On the new account form, the account must be designated as either tenants in com-
                                 mon (TIC) or joint tenants with right of survivorship (JTWROS). Account forms for
                                 joint accounts require the signatures of all owners. Joint account agreements provide that
                                 it only takes one of the tenants to transact business in the account. However, checks
                                 must be made payable to all of the names in which the account is registered and must be
                                 endorsed for deposit by all tenants, although mail need only be sent to a single address. In
                                 order for the sale to be effective, all securities sold from a joint account must be signed by
                                 all tenants.


             14. 2. 1 TENANTS IN COMMON (TIC)
                                     TIC ownership (or JTIC), provides that a deceased tenant’s fractional interest in the
                                 account is retained by that tenant’s estate and is not passed to the surviving tenant(s).
                                 Ownership of a TIC account may be divided unequally. At the death of an account owner,
                                 that person’s proportionate share of the cash and securities in the account is distrib-
                                 uted according to the instructions in the decedent’s will. If one account owner dies or is
                                 declared incompetent, all pending transactions and outstanding orders must be canceled
                                 immediately.




                             *
                         EXAMPLE                         If a TIC agreement provides for 60% ownership interest by one owner and
                                                    40% ownership interest by the other, that fraction of the account would pass
                                                    into the deceased owner’s estate upon death. The TIC agreement may be used
                                                    by more than two individuals.



             14. 2. 2 JOINT TENANTS WITH RIGHT OF SURVIVORSHIP
                      (JTWROS)
                                     JTWROS ownership stipulates that a deceased tenant’s interest in the account passes
                                 to the surviving tenant(s). Regardless of contributions, each JTWROS account owner has
                                 an equal and undivided interest in the cash and securities in the account. Upon the death
                                 or declaration of incompetency of any of the account owners, account ownership passes
                                 to the survivor(s); a right of succession occurs and the other party or parties becomes sole
                                 owner(s) of the account.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 464                                                                                                         7/15/2016 2:03:21 PM
                                                                                                             Session 14   Type of Client      465




                                  !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                         Whenever the test uses the term joint tenants, it means JTWROS (not ten-
                                                     ants in common).



                   14. 2. 3 TRANSFER-ON-DEATH ACCOUNTS (TOD)
                                         Using a transfer-on-death (TOD) account is the simplest way to keep assets held in
                                     brokerage accounts from becoming subject to probate upon a client’s death. However,
                                     the TOD account does not avoid estate taxes if applicable. TOD accounts are available
                                     for most types of paper assets, such as savings and checking accounts in banks and credit
                                     unions, certificates of deposit, stocks, bonds, and other securities.
                                         The owner, while alive, is the only person with any rights to the property. Upon the
                                     owner’s death, the property is immediately transferred to the named beneficiaries, usually
                                     without any added cost. The owner has the right to change beneficiaries at any time and
                                     provide for unequal distribution of the assets if desired.
                                         The only types of accounts that may be opened with a TOD designation are individual
                                     accounts and JTWROS accounts.



                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                         You might also see this as payable-on-death (POD), although the term is
                                                     used far more frequently for bank accounts.


                        14. 2. 3. 1 Totten Trust
                                          If you have a really old bank account you might have a Totten trust designation using
                                     language similar to “John Doe, in trust for Jane Doe” or perhaps “John Doe as trustee for
                                     Jane Doe.” Totten trusts, sometimes referred to as a poor man’s will, allowed for the trans-
                                     fer of ownership of a bank account to a beneficiary after the owner’s death. Totten trusts
                                     were the predecessor to POD or TOD designations, but a few states still recognize them.



                                  !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                         Tenants in common can own unequal interests in the account, unlike joint
                                                     tenants with right of survivorship, who always share equally.

                                                         ■■ TIC: interest can be unequal.

                                                         ■■ JTWROS: all parties must have equal interests.

                                                         Checks or distributions must be made payable in the account name and
                                                     endorsed by all parties.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 465                                                                                                             7/15/2016 2:03:21 PM
     466        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




             14. 2. 4 TENANCY BY THE ENTIRETY
                                     This is the third type of concurrent ownership, or ownership by two or more persons.
                                 Unlike the other two we’ve discussed, a tenancy by the entirety can created only by married
                                 persons. The most important difference between a tenancy by the entirety and a JTWROS
                                 or tenancy in common is that in this form or ownership, the consent of the other tenant is
                                 required before the other tenant can sell or give away his interest in the property. As with
                                 JTWROS, upon the death of one of the spouses, the deceased spouse’s interest passes to
                                 the surviving spouse. Because this form of ownership is restricted to spouses, it is consid-
                                 ered similar to the community property laws found in some states. Tenancy by the entirety
                                 is most commonly used for ownership of real property (real estate).



                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                        Tenants in common can own unequal interests in the account, unlike joint
                                                    tenants with right of survivorship, who always share equally.

                                                         ■■ TIC: interest can be unequal.

                                                         ■■ JTWROS: all parties must have equal interests.

                                                        Checks or distributions must be made payable in the account name and
                                                    endorsed by all parties.



             14. 2. 5 SUITABILITY FOR JOINT ACCOUNTS
                                      The suitability requirements for a joint account follow the same basic rules as all
                                 accounts—put the interest of the client first. Because a joint account is really nothing
                                 other than a collection of individuals, suitability information must be obtained on all of
                                 the account owners and any recommendations must be appropriate based upon that infor-
                                 mation. An example you might see on the exam has two brothers with a TIC account. One
                                 brother is an accredited investor under Rule 501 of the Securities Act, while the other
                                 is far from it. Can the account purchase a private placement that is limited to accredited
                                 investors with the ownership being allocated 100% to the accredited brother? The answer
                                 is no, that wouldn’t work.



             14. 3           ACCOUNTS FOR BUSINESS ENTITIES


             14. 3. 1 SOLE PROPRIETORSHIP
                                     This is the simplest form of business organization and, as mentioned previously, is
                                 treated like an individual account. Therefore, the same issues of suitability that apply to
                                 individual accounts apply to the management of sole proprietorship accounts. In a sole
                                 proprietorship, all income (or loss) is that of the individual. In fact, one of the risks of
                                 operating in this fashion is that all of the owner’s assets are liable for the debts of the busi-




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 466                                                                                                           7/15/2016 2:03:21 PM
                                                                                                     Session 14   Type of Client      467




                             ness—you can lose everything. Obviously, this is one of the major considerations when
                             opening an account for this form of business.


                   14. 3. 2 GENERAL PARTNERSHIP
                                 A general partnership is an unincorporated association consisting of two or more indi-
                             viduals. In a general partnership, the partners manage and are responsible for the opera-
                             tion and debts of the business. Partnerships are easy to form and easy to dissolve, but are
                             generally not suited for raising large sums of capital. Partnerships allow the business’ profits
                             and losses to flow directly through to the investors for tax purposes, thus avoiding double
                             taxation of profits at the business and individual levels.
                                 Because the income and losses flow through to the individual partners, an investment
                             policy for a general partnership would have to consider the combined/collective objectives
                             of all of the partners.


                   14. 3. 3 LIMITED PARTNERSHIP
                                 In the case of an enterprise organized as a limited partnership, the management (and
                             liability) is assigned to the general partner(s) while the limited partner(s) are passive
                             and have liability limited to their investment. This is the typical case with the Direct
                             Participation Programs (DPPs) discussed in Unit 2. Suitability decisions are similar to a
                             general partnership except that the limited partners do not have the full liability of the
                             general partner(s).


                   14. 3. 4 LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY (LLC)
                                  A limited liability company (LLC) is a business structure that combines benefits of
                             incorporation (limited liability) with the tax advantages of a partnership (flow-through of
                             taxable earnings or losses). The LLC owners are members (not shareholders) and are not
                             personally liable for the debts of the LLC.
                                  Just as with the partnership clients described above, the objectives and financial con-
                             straints of the individual members must be considered from a suitability standpoint.


                   14. 3. 5 S-CORPORATION
                                  An S corporation, although taxed like a partnership, offers investors the limited lia-
                             bility associated with corporations in general. The profits and losses are passed through
                             directly to the shareholders in proportion to their ownership in the S corporation. Unlike
                             an LLC, which can have an unlimited number of members, an S corporation may not have
                             more than 100 shareholders, none of whom may be a nonresident alien, or more than one
                             class of stock (presumably common).
                                  Losses on S corporation stock may be claimed only to the extent of an investor’s basis
                             in the shares. The basis includes money contributed or lent to the corporation.
                                  Any business organization client where the entity itself has no liability and is not
                             subject to tax, such as the partnerships, LLC, and S corporation, requires the adviser to
                             look through the entity to the owners in order to properly meet the suitability standards.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 467                                                                                                     7/15/2016 2:03:21 PM
     468        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         Geraldine invested $25,000 in an S corporation, along with nine other
                                                    investors who invested the same amount. Within a year, the corporation needed
                                                    additional equipment, so Geraldine lent $10,000 to the business from her own
                                                    funds. Her basis is now $35,000. If the corporation experiences a $400,000 loss,
                                                    Geraldine’s portion is $40,000. However, she may deduct only $35,000 of the
                                                    loss because that is the amount of her basis.



             14. 3. 6 C-CORPORATION
                                     A C corporation is a business structure that distinguishes the company as a sepa-
                                 rate entity from its owners. If a business expects to need significant capital, this form is
                                 almost always the preferred choice. Unlike the management of a partnership [the general
                                 partner(s)], in most cases, the corporation’s officers and directors are shielded from per-
                                 sonal liability for the corporation’s debts and losses. Shareholders are also shielded from
                                 corporate creditors. That is the limited liability benefit of owning stock. Corporate income
                                 tax applies to the corporation as an entity rather than being passed through to the share-
                                 holder. If your client is a C corporation, you will only look at the corporation’s financial
                                 needs and objectives when determining suitability.



                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         C corporation earnings are subject to double taxation. Before distribution,
                                                    the earnings are taxable to the corporation and then are taxed again to the
                                                    shareholder when paid out as a dividend. Distributions from LLCs and S corpora-
                                                    tions are taxed only once because there is no taxation at the business entity level.



             14. 3. 7 CHOOSING THE RIGHT BUSINESS STRUCTURE
                                 ■■ Here are some testable points to consider when a person is considering which is the
                                    most appropriate business form to use:
                                 ■■ The easiest business to set up, especially if you don’t expect much liability, is the sole
                                    proprietorship. However, because the business and the owner are inseparable, there is
                                    unlimited liability and no limits to the amount of the loss (if any) that may be claimed
                                    on the proprietor’s tax return.
                                 ■■ Partnerships and LLCs are generally easier to form and dissolve than a C corporation.
                                 ■■ Benefits of structuring a business as a general partnership, an LLC, or an S corporation
                                    would include no double taxation as is the case with a C corporation.
                                 ■■ However, a company that expects to be very profitable should be a C corporation
                                    instead of a partnership, an LLC, or an S corporation because in those three, all earn-
                                    ings pass to owners—nothing can be retained.
                                 ■■ Only the sole proprietorship and the C corporation are taxed on their income. The sole
                                    proprietorship on the owner’s personal tax return and the corporation on a Form 1120.
                                 ■■ The only logical choice where a large amount of capital is to be raised is the C corpo-
                                    ration.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 468                                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:03:21 PM
                                                                                                           Session 14   Type of Client      469




                               ■■ The business entities that have limited liability for owners as well as flow-through of
                                  income or loss are the limited partnership, LLC, and S corporation. The C corpo-
                                  ration has limited liability but no flow-through; the sole proprietorship and general
                                  partnership have flow-through but unlimited liability.
                               ■■ Corporations (including LLCs) survive the death of their owners (even if there is only
                                  one shareholder in an S corporation or C corporation, or one member of the LLC).
                               ■■ When it comes to transferability of ownership, the corporate form, especially the C
                                  corporation, is the preferred choice (selling shares is usually pretty straightforward).




                             Q
                       QUICK QUIZ 14.A         Match each of the following terms with the appropriate description below.
                                                    A. Tenants in common
                                                    B. Full power of attorney
                                                    C. Discretionary authorization

                                               ____      1.	Enables the investment adviser representative to make investment
                                                             decisions in a client’s account

                                               ____      2. A deceased’s fractional interest in an account is retained by his estate

                                               ____      3.	Legal document that authorizes someone other than the customer to
                                                             have all privileges in an account

                                               4.   A client has an account where, upon her death, she desires that her only son
                                                    will receive 50% of account value and her 4 daughters will receive 12.5%
                                                    each. The easiest way to accomplish this would be to title the account
                                                    A.   TOD
                                                    B.   JTROS
                                                    C.   Tenants in common
                                                    D.   In trust for the children

                                               5.   Three friends plan to start a new business. It is anticipated it will be several
                                                    years before the business turns a profit. Which of the following types of
                                                    business organization would be best if they wish to limit their liability while,
                                                    at the same time, being able to receive favorable tax treatment for the
                                                    expected losses?
                                                    A.   C corporation
                                                    B.   S corporation
                                                    C.   General partnership
                                                    D.   Sole proprietorship

                                               6.   Several investors open an account in joint tenancy. Financial information is
                                                    required on which of the following investors?
                                                    A.   The majority of the investors
                                                    B.   The largest investor only
                                                    C.   Only the one authorized to trade the account
                                                    D.   All of the investors




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 469                                                                                                           7/15/2016 2:03:21 PM
     470        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                                    7.   A business organized as a sole proprietorship wishes to open an advisory
                                                         account. When preparing an investment policy statement, the IA would have
                                                         to consider the objectives of
                                                         A.   the sole proprietor
                                                         B.   the partners
                                                         C.   the stockholders
                                                         D.   the members

                                                    Quick Quiz answers can be found at the end of the session.




             14. 4           TRUST AND ESTATE ACCOUNTS
                                     Two special kinds of accounts that may appear on the exam are those dealing with
                                 trusts and estates. What both of these have in common is that the person entering orders
                                 on behalf of the account is acting in a fiduciary capacity, whether it be the trustee of the
                                 trust or the executor (or administrator) of the estate. These fiduciaries are acting for the
                                 benefit of the beneficiary or beneficiaries of the trust or estate so it is necessary to look at
                                 the objectives of the trust and the needs of the heirs.


             14. 4. 1 TRUST ACCOUNTS
                                      A trust is a legal entity that offers flexibility to an individual who wishes to transfer
                                 property. Trusts may be established for a variety of personal and charitable property trans-
                                 fers. Trusts are also established as the legal entity for a corporate retirement plan, but that
                                 will be covered in a later session.
                                      The subject of trust law is very complicated and should only be addressed by one who
                                 is competent in the subject, usually an attorney.
                                      This exam will require you to know the basics of trusts, how trusts are taxed, trustee
                                 responsibility, and your obligations when acting as an adviser to the account.


                   14. 4. 1. 1 Trust Parties
                                     For a trust to be valid, three parties must be specified in the trust document (trust
                                 agreement). These parties are a settlor, a trustee, and a beneficiary. Under certain circum-
                                 stances, the settlor, trustee, and beneficiary may be the same individual. For a trust to be
                                 valid, both the settlor and the trustee must be competent parties. However, the beneficiary
                                 may be a minor or a legally incompetent adult.

                                 14. 4. 1. 1. 1 The Settlor
                                     The settlor is the person who supplies the property for the trust. Trust property is also
                                 referred to as its principal or corpus. This party is also known as the maker, grantor, trustor,
                                 or donor.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 470                                                                                                           7/15/2016 2:03:21 PM
                                                                                                            Session 14   Type of Client      471




                                 14. 4. 1. 1. 2 Trustee
                                      A trustee is an individual or other party holding legal title to property held for the
                                 benefit of another person (or persons). The trustee must administer the trust by following
                                 directions in a trust agreement or in a will. A trustee must perform certain duties relative
                                 to the trust property.
                                      A trustee is a fiduciary and is obliged to perform in the interest of the beneficiaries.
                                 The trustee may be one or more adult individuals or an entity in the business of trusteeship
                                 that is responsible for investing, administering, and distributing trust assets for benefit of
                                 the beneficiary (or beneficiaries).
                                      In many ways, a trustee’s duties are like those of an executor (for an estate). However,
                                 a trustee’s duties generally continue for more time than a typical estate settlement, and the
                                 trustee is charged with the greater duty of investing trust assets.

                                 14. 4. 1. 1. 3 Beneficiary
                                     A beneficiary is a person for whose benefit property is held in trust. A beneficiary is
                                 one who receives or who is designated to receive benefits from property transferred by a
                                 trustor. Beneficiaries to a trust include only those persons upon whom the settlor intended
                                 to benefit from the trust property or those who would succeed their interests.




                             *
                             EXAMPLE                  Jill establishes a trust under which her husband, Julian, is to receive all in-
                                                 come produced by the trust property for as long as he lives. Upon Julian’s death,
                                                 their daughter, Janet, will receive the trust principal. Julian is a primary benefi-
                                                 ciary. However, until Julian’s death, Janet is a contingent beneficiary because her
                                                 benefit depends on the occurrence of an event, in this case, Julian’s death.




                               !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                      Although it doesn’t happen often, the grantor of the trust can also be the
                                                 trustee and/or the beneficiary.


                                 14. 4. 1. 1. 4 Remainderman
                                     When a trust has run its course and all expenses and distributions have been made, the
                                 person who receives the remaining balance is called the remainderman (no gender prefer-
                                 ence here, there’s no such term as remainderwoman). The most common case involves
                                 real estate. For example, the husband dies and arranges for his wife to have full use of their
                                 home until she passes away. At that time, any surviving children inherit the home. They
                                 are the remaindermen.


                        14. 4. 1. 2 Simple Trusts vs. Complex

                                 14. 4. 1. 2. 1 Simple Trusts
                                     All income earned on assets placed into a simple trust must be distributed during the
                                 year it is received. If the trust does not distribute all of its net income at least annually,




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 471                                                                                                            7/15/2016 2:03:21 PM
     472        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                 the trust is declared a complex trust. The trustee is not empowered to distribute the trust
                                 principal from a simple trust.

                                 14. 4. 1. 2. 2 Complex Trust
                                     On the other hand, a complex trust may accumulate income. A complex trust is per-
                                 mitted deductions for distributions of net income or principal. Capital gains are deemed
                                 part of the distributable net income of a complex trust unless reinvested. Furthermore, the
                                 trustee may distribute trust principal according to trust terms.



                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                         The key difference between a simple and a complex trust is that the simple
                                                    trust must distribute all of its annual income, whereas a complex trust is not
                                                    obligated to do so.


                   14. 4. 1. 3 Living vs. Testamentary Trusts

                                 14. 4. 1. 3. 1 Living Trust
                                      A living trust, also known as an inter vivos trust, is established during the maker’s
                                 lifetime. A testamentary trust is established according to the instructions of a will—that
                                 is, not with the death of the maker.

                                 14. 4. 1. 3. 2 Testamentary Trust
                                     With a testamentary trust, the settlor retains control over assets until death (think
                                 “last will and testament”). The individual’s will stipulates that, at death, the testator’s
                                 property is to be placed in trust for the benefit of one or more beneficiaries.
                                     The testamentary trust does not reduce the grantor’s income or estate tax exposure.
                                 Furthermore, assets that pass to a testamentary trust do not avoid probate, because the
                                 validity of the will’s instructions to pass property to the trust must be substantiated in
                                 probate court.


                   14. 4. 1. 4 Revocable vs. Irrevocable Trusts
                                     Both living and testamentary trusts can be revocable or irrevocable. Terms of a revo-
                                 cable trust may be changed during the maker’s lifetime. Terms of an irrevocable trust
                                 generally cannot be changed.

                                 14. 4. 1. 4. 1 Revocable Trust
                                     A revocable trust must be a living trust because only the living grantor has the power
                                 to change or revoke (undo) the trust. At the grantor’s death, the trust becomes irrevocable
                                 because the individual with the power to change or revoke the trust no longer lives.
                                     No estate tax benefit is available for a revocable living trust. The value of any trust
                                 assets in which the grantor retains power to revoke the trust and again own the trust prop-
                                 erty outright is includable in the grantor’s gross estate.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 472                                                                                                            7/15/2016 2:03:21 PM
                                                                                                    Session 14   Type of Client      473




                             14. 4. 1. 4. 2 Irrevocable Trust
                                 For a trust to be considered irrevocable, the settlor must give up all ownership in
                             property transferred into the trust. Property placed in an irrevocable trust is usually not
                             includable in the trustor’s estate for federal estate tax purposes. Certain exceptions to the
                             general rule can jeopardize the effectiveness of an irrevocable trust to reduce estate taxes.
                             The exceptions follow.
                             ■■ The grantor retains a life interest, or life income.
                             ■■ The grantor retains a reversionary interest in the trust that is considered more than
                                 incidental. Reversionary interest means that the grantor may receive property back
                                 from the trust. Under tax law, the grantor is treated as the owner of any portion of a
                                 trust in which he has a reversionary interest in either the corpus or the income if the
                                 value of the interest exceeds 5% of the value of that portion.
                             ■■ The grantor retains general power to direct to whom trust property will pass.
                             ■■ The grantor transfers one or more life insurance policies into an irrevocable trust
                                 while retaining certain incidents of ownership, including the ability to make loans
                                 from policy cash values and/or change beneficiaries.

                             14. 4. 1. 4. 3 Grantor Retained Annuity Trusts (GRATs)
                                 This is an estate planning tool designed to pass assets to beneficiaries (usually chil-
                             dren) in a way to minimize gift and/or estate taxes. The topic is very complicated, but here
                             are the basics you might need to know.
                             ■■ The grantor transfers property into a trust (a GRAT) that provides that the grantor
                                 will receive a fixed annuity each year, usually for a term of years. At the end of the
                                 term, the remainder beneficiaries get whatever is left. The gift involved equals the
                                 theoretical value of the remainder, determined by using the discount rate (or rate of
                                 return) specified in IRS tables.
                             ■■ If the assets in the trust earn more than the IRS rate (the Section 7520 rate is 1.8% at
                                 the time of this printing), any earnings in excess of that rate goes to the beneficiary(s)
                                 free of estate and gift taxes. So, if the grantor thinks the transferred property will earn
                                 more than 1.8% (the current number is published each month) over the term of the
                                 trust, there are major tax benefits.
                             ■■ However, if the grantor dies during the term of the trust, the remaining assets are con-
                                 sidered part of the deceased’s estate.
                             ■■ Even though this is technically an irrevocable trust, because the grantor has a retained
                                 interest, the tax liability on the trust’s income falls upon the grantor.


                   14. 4. 2 ESTATE ACCOUNTS
                                  An estate account is an account that, like a trust account, is directed by fiduciary on
                             behalf of the beneficiary or beneficiaries of an estate. In the case of one who prepares a
                             will, there is a specified executor. In the case of one who dies without a will (intestate),
                             these functions are performed by a court-appointed administrator. The executor or admin-
                             istrator makes the investment, management, and distribution decisions for the account.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 473                                                                                                    7/15/2016 2:03:21 PM
     474        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                   14. 4. 2. 1 Per Stirpes
                                      One common way for people to provide for their descendants is to incorporate the
                                 phrase, “to my living issue, per stirpes” in their will. In fact, some states automatically
                                 distribute in that fashion when one dies intestate. Per stirpes (not a typo—it is not stripes)
                                 is from the Latin word meaning branch. When used, per stirpes means that the deceased
                                 intended that a beneficiary’s share of the inheritance is to go to an heir. For example, a
                                 widow (or widower) had three children and wished the estate to be distributed equally. If
                                 one of those children died prior to the estate settlement, that child’s children (the grand-
                                 children of the widow or widower), would receive a one-third share each, while the two
                                 living children would each receive a one-third share.


             14. 4. 3 SUITABILITY ISSUES
                                      Just as with any other account, recommendations must be suitable when considering
                                 all of the relevant information. However, in the case of a trust or estate, there are several
                                 considerations that do not arise in other individual accounts. Some of these are as follows.
                                 ■■ In virtually all cases, the trust document declares the objectives of the trust. Generally,
                                      these can only be changed by the grantor or, once in receipt of the assets, the benefi-
                                      ciary. The trustee is obligated to invest the funds in accordance with those objectives.
                                      For example, if the objective is income until the death of the grantor, then that is the
                                      primary consideration in any recommended transaction. Always follow the terms of
                                      the trust.
                                 ■■ Unless specifically stated in the trust document, margin trading is not permitted.
                                 ■■ In the case of an estate, the terms of the will must be followed.
                                 ■■ If the investment adviser managing the account is also the trustee or executor, in addi-
                                      tion to the normal fiduciary responsibility assumed by all investment advisers, there
                                      are the formal requirements of the Uniform Prudent Investors Act (UPIA). That Act
                                      is described in detail in Session 20 dealing with retirement plans. “Wearing two hats”
                                      is an allowable practice, but not done very often because of the inherent conflict of
                                      interest. This, as with all potential conflicts of interest, must be disclosed to the client.
                                 ■■ There are unique tax considerations, which will be covered in Session 17.
                                 ■■ In the case of trusts, conflicts between the grantor and the beneficiary may exist; in the
                                      case of estates, conflicts among the beneficiaries may arise.




                             *
                         EXAMPLE                         A widow was left a trust with her children as contingent beneficiaries. She is
                                                    to receive income from the trust, and her two children will receive the principal
                                                    upon her death. To maximize their value, the children ask you to allocate half of
                                                    the corpus to growth stocks while leaving the balance in bonds for their mother.
                                                    Because the trust document calls for the widow to receive income, the adviser
                                                    must pursue that objective and cannot follow the wishes of the children until the
                                                    trust’s assets become theirs.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 474                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:03:21 PM
                                                                                                              Session 14   Type of Client      475




                   14. 4. 4 QUALIFIED DOMESTIC RELATIONS ORDERS
                            (QDROS)
                                         Most of what we’ve been discussing has been distributions in the case of death. In the
                                     case of divorce, assets held in qualified retirement plans are frequently distributed based
                                     on a court order. Premature distributions that are taken pursuant to a qualified domestic
                                     relations order, or QDRO, are exempt from the 10% penalty (covered in session 20). A
                                     QDRO is a court-issued order that gives someone the right to an individual’s qualified
                                     plan assets, typically an ex- (or soon-to-be-ex-) spouse, and the QDRO is usually is­sued in
                                     the course of divorce proceedings or to satisfy child support obligations. A QDRO applies
                                     only to assets in a qualified employer plan; it would not be applicable to an IRA or a SEP.



                   14. 5         FIDUCIARY ACCOUNTS
                                         In a fiduciary account, the individual granted fiduciary responsibility enters trades for
                                     the account, makes all of the investment, management, and distribution decisions, and
                                     must manage the account in the owner’s best interests.
                                         Examples of fiduciaries include the following:
                                     ■■ Trustee designated to administer a trust
                                     ■■ Executor designated in a decedent’s will to manage the estate’s affairs
                                     ■■ Administrator appointed by the courts to liquidate the estate of a person who died
                                         intestate (without a will), known as an administrator in intestacy
                                     ■■ Guardian (conservator) designated by the courts to handle a minor’s affairs
                                     ■■ Custodian of an UGMA account
                                     ■■ Receiver in a bankruptcy
                                     ■■ Conservator for an incompetent person




                               *
                              EXAMPLE                     The most familiar fiduciary account is a trust account, in which money or se-
                                                     curities are placed in trust, and someone else manages the account. The manager,
                                                     or trustee, is a fiduciary.

                                         A fiduciary is anyone legally appointed and authorized to represent another person,
                                     act on that person’s behalf, and make decisions necessary to the prudent management of
                                     that person’s account. A fiduciary cannot use account contents for personal benefit but
                                     may be reimbursed for reasonable expenses incurred in managing the account.



                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                         Any trades the fiduciary enters must be consistent with the trust’s investment
                                                     objectives.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 475                                                                                                              7/15/2016 2:03:21 PM
     476        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




             14. 5. 1 OPENING A FIDUCIARY ACCOUNT
                                     Opening a fiduciary account may require a court certification of the individual’s
                                 appointment and authority. An account for a trustee must include a trust agreement
                                 detailing the limitations placed on the fiduciary. No documentation of custodial rights
                                 or court certification is required for an individual to open an UGMA or UTMA account.


             14. 5. 2 POWER OF ATTORNEY
                                     If a person who is not named on an account is to have trading authority, the customer
                                 must file written authorization with the broker-dealer giving that person access to the
                                 account. Without this power in writing, no matter how tempting the answer on the exam,
                                 activity in the account cannot be created by anyone other than the account owner(s).
                                 Trading authorization usually takes the form of a power of attorney. Two basic types of
                                 trading authorizations are full and limited powers of attorney.


                   14. 5. 2. 1 Full Power of Attorney
                                    A full power of attorney allows an individual who is not the owner of an account to:
                                 ■■ deposit or withdraw cash or securities; and/or
                                 ■■ make investment decisions for the account owner.


                   14. 5. 2. 2 Limited Power of Attorney
                                    A limited power of attorney allows an individual to have some, but not total, control
                                 over an account. The document specifies the level of access the person may exercise.



                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                        Limited power of attorney, also called limited trading authorization, allows
                                                    entering of buy and sell orders but not the withdrawal of funds. Entry of orders
                                                    and withdrawal of funds is allowed if full power of attorney is granted.


                   14. 5. 2. 3 Durable Power of Attorney
                                     A full or limited power may be made “durable” by the grantor of the power. It is
                                 designed to provide that a specifically designated person maintains power over the account
                                 even upon the grantor’s incapacitation, whether due to physical or mental causes. Its most
                                 common use is when providing for aging parents. However, upon the death of either prin-
                                 cipal to the durable power of attorney, the power is terminated.



                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                        A durable power of attorney survives the physical or mental incompetence of
                                                    the grantor but not the death of either party.
                                                         This means that orders received after the time of death of the grantor, even
                                                    if the purchase or sale was decided upon prior to death, are not accepted.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 476                                                                                                              7/15/2016 2:03:21 PM
                                                                                                             Session 14   Type of Client      477




                             Q
                       QUICK QUIZ 14.B         Match each of the following items with the appropriate description below.
                                                    A. Executor
                                                    B. Irrevocable trust
                                                    C. Fiduciary

                                               ____        1.	Person legally appointed to manage and/or hold assets for the ben-
                                                               efit of another person

                                               ____        2. Once established, changes may not be made

                                               ____        3. Person authorized by law to manage the estate of a decedent

                                               4.   Sam Jones has been a successful businessman and is concerned that his
                                                    youngest daughter will not be able to live within her means. To protect this
                                                    from happening, Mr. Jones places a certain sum of money into a trust for the
                                                    benefit of the daughter. Because Mr. Jones knows he won’t live forever, he
                                                    arranges for the Fidelity Bank and Trust Company to have control over the
                                                    assets. In this case:
                                                      I.   Sam Jones is the grantor.
                                                     II.   Sam Jones is the trustee.
                                                    III.   Fidelity Bank and Trust Company is the trustee.
                                                    IV.    Sam Jones’s daughter is the beneficiary.
                                                     A.    I, III, and IV
                                                     B.    I and III
                                                     C.    II and III
                                                     D.    II, III, and IV




                   14. 6     FOUNDATIONS AND CHARITIES

                                   One of the discoveries of the Madoff affair was the large amounts lost by charities and
                               foundations. In most cases, certainly true for charities, they should be dealt with as the
                               fiduciary accounts described above. In the case of foundations, because those are usually
                               funded by the principals, a greater amount of investment flexibility may be called for.


                   14. 6. 1 PHILANTHROPIC FUNDS
                                   Wealthy individuals may set up donor-advised funds which allow for flexibility and
                               tax advantages. There are mutual fund sponsors and banks that offer these individuals the
                               opportunity to donate a lump sum, take a current tax deduction, and then have the assets
                               invested to earn over a period of time while allowing the donor to advise distributions
                               to favored charities. If you are dealing with high net worth (HNW) clients who are of a
                               charitable bent, there could be great merit in advising them in this direction.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 477                                                                                                             7/15/2016 2:03:21 PM
     478        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




             14. 6. 2 IMPACT INVESTMENTS
                                     Charities and foundations usually have a specified goal, whether it be medical research
                                 (think American Cancer Society) or social goals (think Greenpeace). Impact investing
                                 is when the entity commits a portion of its funds to those companies or industries which
                                 align with those goals. I don’t think the Cancer Society would have tobacco stocks in its
                                 portfolio and Greenpeace probably wouldn’t invest in strip mining companies.


             14. 6. 3 PROGRAM-RELATED INVESTMENTS
                                     Although somewhat similar to impact investing, program-related investments are
                                 those where the foundation (more common for them than charities) makes a charitable
                                 distribution. Examples of this would be helping bring new drugs to market more quickly by
                                 providing necessary funding. One caution is that the investments must be consistent with
                                 the philanthropy’s mission in order to get the same favorable tax treatment by the IRS as
                                 a regular charitable gift would.




                             Q
                 QUICK QUIZ 14.C                    Match each type of account with the appropriate description below.
                                                         A.   Partnership account
                                                         B.   TOD
                                                         C.   TIC
                                                         D.   JTWROS

                                                    ____      1.	Each party specifies a percentage interest in the account. If one party
                                                                  dies, her interest in the account passes to her estate.

                                                    ____      2.	Parties share an undivided interest in the account. If one party dies,
                                                                  his interest passes to the other owner(s) of the account.

                                                    ____      3.	The assets in the account become the property of the beneficiary on
                                                                  the death of the account owner without passing through probate.

                                                    ____      4.	An unincorporated interest of two or more individuals. A written
                                                                  agreement specifies which individuals can trade the account.

                                                    5.   The most appropriate term to use when referring to a trust that is established
                                                         upon the death of the grantor is
                                                         A.   revocable trust
                                                         B.   irrevocable trust
                                                         C.   living trust
                                                         D.   testamentary trust

                                                    6.   For which of the following types of clients would the suitability requirements
                                                         be somewhat more relaxed?
                                                         A.   A high net worth individual
                                                         B.   A charity
                                                         C.   A foundation
                                                         D.   An executor




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 478                                                                                                                  7/15/2016 2:03:21 PM
                                                                                                             Session 14   Type of Client       479




                           Q U I C K          Q U I Z         A N S W E R S

                   Quick Quiz 14.A                                                 Quick Quiz 14.C

                      1.     C                                                       1. C

                      2.     A                                                       2. D

                      3. B                                                           3. B

                      4. A.      Transfer on death requires no additional            4. A
                                 legal work and allows the account owner
                                 to designate beneficiaries in whatever              5. D.   A trust that first goes into effect upon the
                                 percentages she wants. Furthermore, changes                 death of the grantor (the individual who
                                 can be made at any time prior to death.                     established the trust) is properly referred to as
                                                                                             a testamentary trust. Yes, it is an irrevocable
                      5. B.      The only way to limit liability is through                  trust because the deceased cannot make any
                                 a corporation (or LLC or limited                            changes, but irrevocable trusts can refer to
                                 partnership—neither of which is offered here                trusts that don’t involve the death of the
                                 as a choice). The S corporation allows for                  grantor; testamentary trusts cannot. On the
                                 the flow-through of operating losses to the                 exam, you will sometimes have to choose
                                 shareholders while the C corp does not                      from the best of two possible answers.

                      6. D.      When a joint account is opened, financial           6. A.   Of the choices listed, the one account that
                                 information should be obtained on all of the                would generally have the most relaxed
                                 account owners.                                             suitability requirements would be the high
                                                                                             net worth client. The regulators generally
                      7. A.      A sole proprietorship only has 1 owner.                     take the position that individuals like that
                                 Therefore, the account would focus on the                   need fewer investment protections. Even
                                 needs of that individual. Partnerships have                 when the charity or foundation is very large,
                                 partners; corporations have stockholders;                   there usually is the requirement to meet high
                                 LLCs have members.                                          suitability standards.
                   Quick Quiz 14.B

                      1. C

                      2. B

                      3. A

                      4. A.      The person who funds the trust is the grantor
                                 or settlor. The bank has been appointed to be
                                 trustee, and the daughter is the beneficiary of
                                 the trust.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 479                                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:03:21 PM
Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 480   7/15/2016 2:03:21 PM
                             15
                             Client Profile


                             A
                                       n adviser must be familiar with each client’s circumstances, financial
                                       goals, and needs to formulate suitable investment recommendations.
                                       Without suitability information, the account cannot be opened.
                             This is unlike broker-dealers that are permitted to open client accounts
                             without suitability information.
                                 The Series 66 exam will include 6 questions on the material covered in
                             this session. ■




                                                                                                            481




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 481                                                                            7/15/2016 2:03:22 PM
            OBJECTIVES


                                 When you have completed this session, you should be able to:

                             ■■ identify the components of a family balance sheet;

                             ■■ contrast financial and non-financial investment considerations;

                             ■■ list the different goals applicable to investors; and

                             ■■ distinguish between investment objectives and investment constraints.




      482




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 482                                                                              7/15/2016 2:03:22 PM
                                                                                                           Session 15   Client Profile      483




                   15. 1     FINANCIAL STATUS
                                 A financial profile should include an assessment of the client’s:
                              ■■ current expenditures;
                              ■■ debt obligations;
                              ■■ tax status;
                              ■■ income sources; and
                              ■■ a balance sheet containing the client’s assets, including
                                  —— cash, CDs, and savings accounts (usually looked at as an “emergency fund,” gener-
                                     ally considered to be a primary requirement for investing in securities),
                                  —— real estate holdings,
                                  —— value and composition of securities holdings,
                                  —— pension and retirement accounts,
                                  —— cash value in life insurance policies, and
                                 —— personal items such as jewelry and automobiles; and
                              ■■ liabilities, including
                                  —— current debt obligations (credit cards, estimated tax payments, etc.),
                                  —— long-term debt obligations (auto loan, mortgage, etc.),
                                  —— loans against insurance cash value, and
                                  —— loans against 401(k) plan.

                                  Using this information, the adviser will prepare a family balance sheet. This balance
                              sheet reflects all of the client’s assets and liabilities in order to determine the overall net
                              worth and liquidity of that client, while a family income statement includes income and
                              expenses and is used to determine the client’s cash flow.
                                  Taking into consideration all of this information indicates to the securities professional
                              the extent to which the client is able to make a lump sum investment (the balance sheet
                              shows a large amount of net assets available), and/or periodic investments (the income
                              statement reveals a positive cash flow – there is “money left at the end of the month”).



                             !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT             A family balance sheet only includes assets and liabilities, not income like sal-
                                              ary, dividends or interest, or amounts paid for expenses.




                   15. 2     NONFINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS
                                 A client’s nonfinancial considerations can be more important than the financial infor-
                              mation. Relevant nonfinancial information includes the following:
                              ■■ Age
                              ■■ Marital status




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 483                                                                                                           7/15/2016 2:03:22 PM
     484        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                 ■■ Investment experience
                                 ■■ Attitudes and values
                                 ■■ Number and age of dependents
                                 ■■ Employment stability
                                 ■■ Employment of family members
                                 ■■ Demographics (where clients live can affect their investment attitudes)
                                 ■■ Current and future family educational needs
                                 ■■ Current and future family health care needs


             15. 2. 1 RISK TOLERANCE
                                     Investor risk tolerance—the attitude toward risk and safety—is an important part of a
                                 client’s profile. Regardless of a person’s financial status, the customer’s motivation to invest
                                 and risk tolerance should shape the portfolio.
                                     Selection of specific types of investments (e.g., stocks, bonds, annuities) depends on
                                 three factors:
                                 ■■ Client’s objectives
                                 ■■ Amount available for investing (client must use discretionary cash for investing, not
                                     the rent money)
                                 ■■ Client’s aversion to risk (every investment involves some degree of risk because every
                                     investment requires transferring purchasing power from the present to the future and
                                     no one knows what the future holds)

                                     To understand a customer’s risk tolerance, an adviser should know information such
                                 as the following:
                                 ■■ How much of a loss the investor can tolerate (e.g., 5%, 50%, or 100%)
                                 ■■ The liquidity requirements for investments
                                 ■■ The importance of tax considerations
                                 ■■ Investment time horizon, either long-term or short-term
                                 ■■ Investment experience
                                 ■■ Current investment holdings
                                 ■■ Expectations regarding investment returns
                                 ■■ Investment temperament (i.e., is the client bored with stable investments or anxious
                                     with volatile ones?)
                                 ■■ Level of tolerance for market fluctuations

                                      A person’s risk tolerance is often characterized as either aggressive or conservative.
                                      Aggressive investors are willing to risk greater amounts and withstand market volatil-
                                 ity in exchange for the chance to realize substantial returns. An aggressive investor may
                                 be willing to sustain losses of 10%, 25%, or even 50% on an investment. Conservative
                                 investors normally want the relative safety of guaranteed income with low risk to loss of
                                 principal. Very conservative investors are unwilling to sustain even modest losses on their
                                 investments. There is a full spectrum of risk profiles between these two extremes.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 484                                                                                                          7/15/2016 2:03:23 PM
                                                                                                                     Session 15   Client Profile      485




                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                              An investor who claims to be aggressive but is unwilling to sustain losses is
                                                          actually conservative.

                                         A client’s tolerance for volatility and risk will often narrow the field of potential
                                     investments.



                   15. 3         FINANCIAL GOALS/OBJECTIVES
                                         Within the parameters determined by a client’s circumstances and financial resources,
                                     the adviser and client should establish financial goals. The most commonly specified goals
                                     include capital preservation, current income, capital growth, and speculation. The objec-
                                     tives behind these goals may be planning for college education, retirement, death, or
                                     disability.
                                         However, in attempting to meet these objectives, there may be some obstacles, prop-
                                     erly referred to as investment constraints, that must be considered. When an investment
                                     adviser or IAR prepares a plan for a client, all of these factors are used to prepare an invest-
                                     ment policy statement (IPS) we described in the previous session. The following chart
                                     may be helpful in your review of objectives and constraints

                                                      Investment Policy Statements: Objectives and Constraints
                                              Objectives                        Description
                                              Return requirements               Minimum annual income requirements;
                                                                                accumulation amount needed to meet financial
                                                                                goals, and so forth
                                              Risk tolerance                    Investor’s risk tolerance based on self-evaluation,
                                                                                objective questionnaire, and past experience
                                              Constraints                       Description
                                              Time horizon                      Time frame in which goals must be attained
                                              Liquidity                         What is cash need? For defined-benefit plans, this
                                                                                may be high; for individual retirement plans, this
                                                                                may be low
                                              Taxes                             Tax characteristics of investor and desired level of
                                                                                tax management
                                              Laws and regulations              Any legal prohibitions on types of investments or
                                                                                transactions
                                              Unique circumstances and/or       Investor preferences or desires to avoid particular
                                              preferences                       types of assets



                   15. 3. 1 PRESERVATION OF CAPITAL
                                         Many people are averse to any decline in value of their investments. For such inves-
                                     tors, bank insured bonds, CDs, savings accounts, and money market funds offer the safety




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 485                                                                                                                     7/15/2016 2:03:23 PM
     486        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                 they seek. However, by reducing market risk (there is little or no market price fluctuation
                                 in these instruments), the investor is sacrificing the opportunity for higher income. In
                                 addition, as fixed income investments, they are exposed to inflation (purchasing power)
                                 risk.


                   15. 3. 1. 1 Bank Insured Certificates of Deposit (CDs)
                                     In addition to the questions about the jumbo, negotiable CDs that trade in the money
                                 market, there are questions on the exam about the certificates of deposit that you can get
                                 at your local bank. Here are some points that will help you get the right answer.
                                 ■■ Bank CDs eliminate interest rate risk (their value remains constant, even when inter-
                                     est rates change).
                                 ■■ They are not savings accounts with a maturity date.
                                 ■■ They would be included as an asset on a family balance sheet.
                                 ■■ They are the preferred answer when the question asks about a client who wants capital
                                     preservation with no risk of loss.
                                 ■■ They are insured by the FDIC up to the current limit (limits are not tested).
                                 ■■ Each bank sets the interest rate it will pay on those CDs with smaller banks typically
                                     offering more competitive rates.



                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT                        On the exam, the first choice for preservation of capital should always be
                                                    bank insured CDs. In addition, because they are not marketable (traded in any
                                                    marketplace), bank CDs (we’re referring to the ones retail investors purchase at
                                                    their local branches—not the jumbo CDs traded in the money market), have no
                                                    interest rate risk. That is, because their value is fixed, you can always redeem
                                                    them at face value, regardless of the direction of interest rates. The exam will ig-
                                                    nore the fact that there may be a penalty for cashing in before maturity.



             15. 3. 2 CURRENT INCOME
                                     Investors seeking current income will normally focus on individual securities or mutual
                                 funds that invest in fixed-income investments such as:
                                 ■■ government bonds and notes and agency bonds;
                                 ■■ corporate bonds and notes;
                                 ■■ preferred stock; and
                                 ■■ utility company stock.

                                     Not all income-producing investments are the same. U.S Treasury issues carry the
                                 guarantee of the United States and, at least as far as we (and the exam) are concerned,
                                 have no default risk. Government agency bonds are only slightly less safe, and few would
                                 lose sleep worrying about AAA corporate bonds failing to meet their obligations. All this
                                 safety comes at a cost. Based on the risk/reward principle, assuming low risk rewards one
                                 with a low return. On the other end of the spec­trum are bonds of corporations with very
                                 low credit ratings (the high-yield, or junk, bonds). These bonds tend to yield high, if some-




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 486                                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:03:23 PM
                                                                                                   Session 15   Client Profile      487




                             what uneven, income with principal subject to credit (default) risk. The principle here is
                             the same risk/reward; higher risk, greater potential rewards.
                                 In choosing between income-producing investments, the time the investor expects
                             to remain in the holding is a primary consideration. If the client will likely need to use
                             the money invested in less than two years, a money market mutual fund would likely
                             offer a positive return on investment with no fluctuation of principal and ready access to
                             the money through check-writing privileges. Alternatively, the investor might wish to
                             allocate a portion of the funds to T-bills and T-notes. If the client can afford to remain in
                             the investment for 5–10 years, a corporate bond would pro­duce much greater returns. In
                             the three- to five‑year range, an intermediate-term government bond can provide relative
                             safety of principal and a compet­itive interest rate.


                   15. 3. 3 CAPITAL GROWTH
                                 Stock investments generally provide a means to preserve and increase the buying
                             power of an investor’s money over and above the inflation rate. Although subject to short-
                             term volatility, the equity market tends to provide higher investment returns over time.
                                 As with income, the term growth refers to a broad spectrum of investments. Aggressive
                             growth stocks may be very appropriate for a person with a very high tolerance for risk and
                             the ability to remain invested for many years. At the other end of the spectrum are large
                             capitalization stock funds that invest in some of the largest and most respected companies.
                             These funds may be a better choice for older investors, who may need to liquidate the
                             investment in three to five years, or investors who are more com­fortable knowing they
                             have invested in a fund that is less risky.


                   15. 3. 4 SPECULATION
                                 A customer may want to speculate with a portion of their investments. Speculative
                             investments offer the opportunity to earn substantial returns but carry a commensurate
                             amount of risk. Speculative investments may include:
                             ■■ highly volatile stocks;
                             ■■ high-yield (junk) bonds;
                             ■■ options on stocks or stock indexes; and
                             ■■ commodity futures.


                   15. 3. 5 COLLEGE TUITION
                                 In addition to other types of investments, investors planning for college tuition often
                             invest in zero-coupon bonds that mature when the tuition expenses are due. It may be
                             advisable to establish college tuition investment programs such as Coverdell ESAs (for-
                             merly known as Education IRAs) and Section 529 plans because of their tax advantages.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 487                                                                                                   7/15/2016 2:03:23 PM
     488        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




             15. 3. 6 RETIREMENT
                                     In determining a client’s retirement needs, Social Security, company pensions, retire-
                                 ment savings accounts, and insurance (as well as investments outside of a retirement plan-
                                 ning framework) should all be considered.
                                     The earlier an individual begins to save for retirement, the more time the investment
                                 assets are able to grow. A long-term retirement planning time horizon may enable an
                                 investor to assume additional risk in the portfolio, generally through equities. This helps a
                                 client accumulate significant funds to support a long retirement period. As life expectancy
                                 has risen, the topic of decumulation has come into focus. How do we make sure that the
                                 money accumulated lasts long enough? One way to minimize longevity risk is through the
                                 purchase of annuities (fixed, index, and variable) because payout is guaranteed for life. In
                                 fact, there is a specialized annuity product known as the longevity annuity, or deferred
                                 income annuity, designed specifically to cover that risk.


             15. 3. 7 DEATH BENEFITS
                                      Because death can eliminate a family’s primary income earner and cause a possible
                                 substantial estate tax liability, life insurance is an important component of customer port-
                                 folios. Family businesses are often lost as a result of estate taxes insufficiently covered by
                                 insurance.



                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                         For test purposes, younger people with children are better off purchasing
                                                    term insurance because the lower premiums allow significantly more protection.
                                                    For those age 60 and older, the rates are generally prohibitive.




                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                         In those cases where the estate does have liquid assets such as stocks and
                                                    bonds, life insurance still may serve a valuable need in that these income produc-
                                                    ing assets will not have to be sold to cover the estate tax liability or other final
                                                    expenses.


                   15. 3. 7. 1 Capital Needs Analysis
                                    A capital needs analysis is used to determine how much life insurance is necessary to
                                 meet future needs. At minimum, life insurance coverage should provide for:
                                 ■■ payoff of the client’s mortgage and other debts;
                                 ■■ income for the survivor(s) for a reasonable time;
                                 ■■ college tuition; and
                                 ■■ estate taxes if the taxable estate will exceed $5.45 million in 2016.

                                    There are several factors that are used in the computation to evaluate how much is
                                 necessary to meet these needs. First, we try to project the client’s future earnings. Then,




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 488                                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:03:23 PM
                                                                                                        Session 15   Client Profile      489




                              we estimate life expectancy and, of course, we must account for inflation. Because the
                              death benefit in a life insurance policy is generally a fixed amount, we are not concerned
                              about market volatility. Finally, we look at existing assets, such as savings and investments,
                              including those which offer tax deferrals such as IRAs and employer-sponsored plans.


                   15. 3. 8 DISABILITY
                                  Should a client become disabled, there are three possible sources of replacement
                              income: workers’ compensation, Social Security, and disability insurance.

                                  Workers’ Compensation. If an employee is injured on the job, workers’ compensa-
                              tion can provide protection to cover medical expenses, replace lost income, and provide
                              death benefits to the family. Although the worker’s compensation benefits in some states
                              (benefits vary from state to state) are quite generous, payments are made only when the
                              disability results from a work related injury.

                                 Social Security. Like other Social Security benefits, a worker’s disability benefit will
                              depend on a number of factors, such as age and income. However, in order to receive
                              payments, you must meet their strict definition of disabled which is:

                                      You must not be able to engage in any substantial gainful activity (SGA) be-
                                  cause of a medically-determinable physical or mental impairment(s):
                                  ■■ That is expected to result in death, or
                                  ■■ That has lasted or is expected to last for a continuous period of at least 12 months.

                                  Disability Insurance. Because workers’ compensation only covers in limited cases
                              and because Social Security’s definition of disabled is relatively strict, most agree that it
                              is wise to purchase a private disability insurance policy. Waiting and benefit periods can
                              be adjusted based on the client’s needs and finances.. The amount of insurance can be
                              determined by the information derived from the client’s income, assets, and occupation.
                              Many clients are covered under group medical, disability, and life insurance programs
                              supported fully or in part by employers.



                             !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                  An application for disability insurance coverage can be denied in the case of
                                              a hazardous occupation.



                   15. 3. 9 TAX PLANNING
                                  A client’s tax situation is often an important factor in determining suitable invest-
                              ments. Taxes may be reduced by using the following three strategies: asset and income
                              shifting, tax deferral, or tax-free income.

                                  Asset and Income Shifting. A client can shift investment assets and income to a
                              person in a lower tax bracket. Until early 2006, it was common to place income-produc-




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 489                                                                                                        7/15/2016 2:03:23 PM
     490        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                 ing assets in the name of a child aged 14 or older to avoid the “kiddie” tax, but since it
                                 now includes all children under age 19 and full-time students under age 24, the practice
                                 has lost much of its luster. However, with many of today’s baby boomers supporting
                                 elderly parents, placing those assets in the parent’s name will remove the income from
                                 your client and let the parent receive the income directly with little or no tax liability.
                                 As mentioned previously, trusts may also be used to shift assets and income.

                                     Tax Deferral. Contributions to a qualified retirement plan or tax-sheltered annuity
                                 are not taxed until withdrawn. Investing funds that have not been taxed allows a sub-
                                 stantially larger portion of the investor’s money to earn income or capital gains, also not
                                 taxed until withdrawn.

                                      Tax-Free Income. Most municipal bonds pay interest that is free from federal taxa-
                                 tion, although they are generally subject to state income tax unless issued in the taxpay-
                                 er’s state of residence. Municipal bonds generally pay a lower interest rate than taxable
                                 bonds but, depending on the investor’s tax bracket, may result in higher returns on an
                                 after-tax basis.



                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         Although interest income from municipal bonds is tax free, capital gains are
                                                    fully taxable. Capital gains occur when the bond is sold for a price that is greater
                                                    than the investor’s cost basis (investment) in the bond. This is also true of capital
                                                    gains distributions from municipal bond mutual funds. While the income distribu-
                                                    tions may be tax-free, capital gains from any source are always taxable. Other
                                                    potential sources of tax-free earnings are Section 529 plans, Roth IRAs, and
                                                    Coverdell ESAs.



             15. 3. 10 TIME HORIZON
                                      An investor’s time horizon and liquidity needs will determine the level of volatility
                                 the client should assume. Over a 20- or 30-year time frame, dramatic short-term volatility
                                 is acceptable, even to those who are risk averse. Money that will be needed within three
                                 to five years should be invested for safety and liquidity. Time horizon is a particularly
                                 important investment constraint when planning for college education and for retirement.



                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                        The longer the time horizon, the more market risk the account can accept
                                                    and vice versa.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 490                                                                                                                  7/15/2016 2:03:23 PM
                                                                                                           Session 15   Client Profile      491




                             Q
                       QUICK QUIZ 15.A         1.   A married couple is 55 and 57 years old. The older of the two plans to retire
                                                    at 62 and the younger at 65, and both are healthy. What is the most appro-
                                                    priate estimate of the time horizon for their retirement portfolio?
                                                    A.   5 years
                                                    B.   7 years
                                                    C.   8 years
                                                    D.   More than 20 years

                                               2.   An individual’s net worth is
                                                    A. the difference between the individual’s assets and the individual’s
                                                       liabilities
                                                    B. best determined by examining the individual’s personal income
                                                       statement
                                                    C. largely irrelevant in identifying the individual’s investment objectives
                                                    D. another term for discretionary income

                                               3.   In designing an investment portfolio for a new client, one of the first things
                                                    to do is determine the client’s
                                                    A.   home address
                                                    B.   Social Security or tax ID number
                                                    C.   risk tolerance
                                                    D.   beneficiary

                                               4.   An 83-year-old widower explains to you that he is risk averse and wishes to
                                                    find an investment that will provide him with preservation of capital. Which
                                                    of the following might you recommend?
                                                    A.   an index fund
                                                    B.   bank-insured CDs
                                                    C.   long-term U.S. government bonds
                                                    D.   preferred stock

                                               Quick Quiz answers can be found at the end of the session.



                   15. 3. 11 LIFE CYCLE CONSIDERATIONS
                                    An investor’s goals may change over time. This is especially true as investors move
                               from one phase of life to another. For example, a young couple may have a primary goal
                               of funding a child’s education. Later, the same family, having provided for their children’s
                               education, may turn their attention to the aggressive accumulation of wealth, perhaps to
                               pro­vide for an early retirement or a dream home. Upon retirement, this couple may need
                               to move toward income-producing investments. Income and net worth change over time,
                               as do investment goals and life cycle considerations. Because the adviser’s responsibility
                               to know his client is ongoing, the account form should be updated regularly to reflect the
                               client’s new goals and financial considerations.
                                    As the baby boomer generation reaches retirement age, the regulators have increased
                               their focus on protecting senior investors. Among the suggested practices is to take detailed
                               notes of conversations and, when it becomes apparent that the client is not grasping as
                               well as before, recommend that a family member or other competent person participate in
                               all discussions.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 491                                                                                                           7/15/2016 2:03:23 PM
     492        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                         The following chart summarizes common investor objectives and appropri-
                                                    ate recommendations. Be ready for a significant number of situational questions
                                                    that require determining the best solution for the investor.


                                             Investor Objective                         Suitable Recommendation

                                    Preservation of capital; safety       Insured bank CDs, money market instruments or funds,
                                                                          T-bills

                                    Growth                                Common stock or common stock mutual funds
                                    ■■ Balanced/moderate growth           ■■ Large-cap stocks, defensive stocks
                                    ■■ Aggressive growth                  ■■ Technology stocks, sector funds, or cyclical stocks

                                    Income                                Bonds (but not zero-coupons)
                                    ■■ Greatest safety                    ■■ U.S. Government bonds
                                    ■■ Tax-free income                    ■■ Municipal bonds or municipal bond funds
                                    ■■ High-yield income                  ■■ Corporate bonds or corporate bond funds
                                    ■■ From a stock portfolio             ■■ Preferred stock and utility stocks

                                    Liquidity                             Money market funds
                                                                          ■■ (DPPs, real estate, and annuities are not considered
                                                                             liquid)

                                    Speculation                           Volatile stocks, high-yield bonds, stock/index options




             15. 4           CLIENT DATA GATHERING

                                      How is all of the information necessary to complete the customer profile obtained?
                                 Although there is no universal method, most firms rely on a combination of tools. The
                                 first step is usually having the client complete a detailed questionnaire. Optimally, this
                                 should be followed up by a personal interview, either in the office or home, on the phone,
                                 or online with one of the various video services currently available. There is only so much
                                 one can learn from a form, and both the client and the IAR benefit from the give and take
                                 of an interview. As covered elsewhere in this course, confidentiality and security of this
                                 customer data is critical.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 492                                                                                                            7/15/2016 2:03:23 PM
                                                                                                        Session 15   Client Profile       493




                        Q U I C K          Q U I Z          A N S W E R S

                   Quick Quiz 15.A                                              3. C.   One can’t adequately present any investment
                                                                                        recommendations without having an
                      1. D.   Time horizon does not end at retirement                   understanding of the client’s risk tolerance.
                              age. The portfolio will have to last them                 Home address and Social Security number
                              throughout their retirement until their death.            are legal requirements for opening the
                              On the basis of current life expectancy tables,           account, but they don’t enter into the
                              the money will have to last them at least 20              decision-making process for portfolio design.
                              years.                                                    Yes, you will want to know the beneficiary
                                                                                        of any IRAs or qualified plans, but that
                      2. A.   An individual’s net worth is the difference               has little to do with the nature of your
                              between the individual’s assets and the                   recommendations.
                              individual’s liabilities. It is determined from
                              the personal balance sheet rather than from       4. B.   There are 2 answers for preservation of
                              the personal income statement. Net worth                  capital on this exam. The strongest is a bank
                              is relevant in determining an individual’s                insured CD, followed by a money market
                              investment objectives. Someone with a                     fund (you’ll never have both in the same
                              negative net worth might find it preferable               question).
                              to reduce his debt level before beginning an
                              investment program.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 493                                                                                                            7/15/2016 2:03:23 PM
Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 494   7/15/2016 2:03:23 PM
                             16
                             Portfolio Management
                             Styles, Strategies, and
                             Techniques


                             P
                                    ortfolio managers use a range of investment styles and strategies.
                                    Although each style attempts to generate superior investment returns
                                    and reduce investment risks, no single style is suited to every investor.
                             Often, an investment adviser’s role is to guide clients toward a mutual fund
                             or private money manager that is consistent with the client’s objectives and
                             temperament.
                                 The session will conclude with a look at some of the techniques used by
                             the various styles and strategies discussed.
                                 The Series 66 exam will include 7 questions from this session. ■




                                                                                                            495




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 495                                                                            7/15/2016 2:03:23 PM
            OBJECTIVES


                                 When you have completed this session, you should be able to:

                             ■■ list the major asset classes used in an asset allocation program;

                             ■■ explain the difference between active and passive management styles;

                             ■■ compute a rebalancing problem;

                             ■■ name the three major levels of market capitalization;

                             ■■ compare the three techniques for minimizing interest rate risk;

                             ■■ compute the expected return using the security market line;

                             ■■ identify the three components of the Efficient Market Hypothesis;

                             ■■ illustrate how dollar cost averaging results in lowering an investor’s average cost per
                                share;

                             ■■ explain the logic behind sector rotating; and

                             ■■ summarize the risk reduction benefits of diversification.




      496




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 496                                                                                          7/15/2016 2:03:24 PM
                                                                     Session 16   Portfolio Management Styles, Strategies, and Techniques      497




                   16. 1      ASSET ALLOCATION
                                     Asset allocation (more accurately, but rarely stated, asset class allocation) refers to
                                 the spreading of portfolio funds among different asset classes. Proponents of asset alloca-
                                 tion feel that the mix of assets within a portfolio, rather than individual stock selection
                                 or marketing timing, is the primary factor underlying the variability of returns in portfolio
                                 performance. There are three major types (each with subclasses) of asset classes:
                                 ■■ Stock, with subclasses based on market capitalization, value versus growth, and foreign
                                     equity
                                 ■■ Bonds, with subclasses based on maturity (intermediate versus long-term), and issuer
                                     (Treasury versus corporate versus non-U.S. issuers)
                                 ■■ Cash, focusing mainly on the standard risk-free investment, the 90‑day Treasury bill,
                                     but also including other short-term money market instruments

                                     In some instances, tangible assets, such as real estate (usually in the form of REITs),
                                 precious metals and other commodities, and certain collectibles (think fine art), are part of
                                 the asset allocation because these types of assets tend to reduce inflation risk. Increasingly,
                                 institutional investors (and some very high net worth individuals due to the high cost of
                                 entry) are using such alternative investment asset classes as hedge funds, private equity,
                                 and venture capital.


                   16. 1. 1 STRATEGIC ASSET ALLOCATION
                                     Strategic asset allocation refers to the proportion of various types of investments com-
                                 posing a long-term investment portfolio.




                             *
                             EXAMPLE                 A standard asset allocation model suggests subtracting a person’s age from
                                                 100 to determine the percentage of the portfolio to be invested in stocks. Ac-
                                                 cording to this method, a 30-year-old would be 70% invested in stocks and
                                                 30% in bonds and cash; a 70-year-old would be invested 30% in stocks with the
                                                 remainder in bonds and cash.


                        16. 1. 1. 1 Rebalancing
                                     A portfolio is rebalanced to bring the asset mix back to the target allocations. If the
                                 stock market should perform better than expected, the client’s proportion of stocks to
                                 bonds would be out of balance. So, on some timely basis (perhaps quarterly), stocks would
                                 be sold and bonds would be purchased (or funds would be placed in cash) to bring the
                                 proportions back to the desired levels.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 497                                                                                                              7/15/2016 2:03:24 PM
     498        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                             *
                         EXAMPLE                         Using the 70% equity/30% debt model described above, the investor’s initial
                                                    investment of $100,000 is split $70,000 into equity securities and $30,000 into
                                                    debt securities. Let’s say the account is to be rebalanced semiannually. Because of
                                                    a bull market in stocks, six months later, the account value is $120,000. Analysis
                                                    of the account indicates that the value of the equities is now $90,000, whereas
                                                    the bonds have remained stable at $30,000. To rebalance—that is, to bring the
                                                    account back to the 70/30 ratio—it will be necessary to sell $6,000 of the equity
                                                    and invest those funds into debt. That will make the account $84,000 equity and
                                                    $36,000 debt, our desired 70/30 ratio. The effect of this is that stocks are sold
                                                    in a rising market and purchased in a falling market, following the old adage of
                                                    “buy low and sell high.”


                                 16. 1. 1. 1. 1 Constant Ratio Plan
                                     An investment plan that attempts to maintain the type of relationship shown in our
                                 example between debt and equity securities (or other asset classes) is sometimes called a
                                 constant ratio plan. Periodically, the account is rebalanced to bring it back to the desired
                                 ratio.

                                 16. 1. 1. 1. 2 Constant Dollar Plan
                                      Under this investment plan, the goal is to maintain a constant dollar amount in stocks,
                                 moving money in and out of a money market fund when necessary. Using the last example,
                                 if the investor had a goal of a constant dollar of $70,000 in stock, the other $30,000 would
                                 be placed into a money market fund. When the stock value rose to $90,000, $20,000
                                 would be liquidated and placed into the money market account. At this point, the account
                                 would have the desired $70,000 in stock and now have $50,000 in money markets. If the
                                 stock value should drop to $55,000, the money market fund would be tapped for $15,000
                                 to get back to the $70,000 constant dollar.


             16. 1. 2 TACTICAL ASSET ALLOCATION
                                     Tactical asset allocation refers to short-term portfolio adjustments that adjust the
                                 portfolio mix between asset classes in consideration of current market conditions.




                             *
                         EXAMPLE                        If the stock market is expected to do well over the near term, a portfolio
                                                    manager may allocate greater portions of a portfolio to stocks. If the market is
                                                    expected to decline, the portfolio manager may allocate greater portions of the
                                                    portfolio entirely to bonds and cash.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 498                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:03:24 PM
                                                                      Session 16   Portfolio Management Styles, Strategies, and Techniques      499




                   16. 2      ACTIVE AND PASSIVE MANAGEMENT STYLES


                   16. 2. 1 ACTIVE MANAGEMENT
                                      An active portfolio manager, using a particular stock selection approach, buys and sells
                                 individual stocks. Active management relies on the manager’s stock picking and market
                                 timing ability to outperform market indexes. Market timing is the strategy of making buy or
                                 sell decisions, generally regarding stocks, by attempting to predict future price movements.
                                 Usually, the focus is on timing the overall market rather than a specific security.




                             *
                             EXAMPLE                  An active portfolio manager may position the portfolio in stocks within a
                                                 few market sectors (such as pharmaceuticals and technology) frequently trad-
                                                 ing in and out of the stocks. An active manager may change the sector focus to
                                                 capitalize on relative performance of different sectors during different stages of
                                                 the business cycle.



                   16. 2. 2 PASSIVE MANAGEMENT
                                      A passive portfolio manager believes that no particular management style will con-
                                 sistently outperform market averages and therefore constructs a portfolio that mirrors a
                                 market index, such as the S&P 500. Passive portfolio management seeks low-cost means
                                 of generating consistent, long-term returns with minimal turnover.



                               !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                      For purposes of the examination, passive portfolio management is very
                                                 similar to strategic asset allocation. The same could be said about the relation-
                                                 ship between active management and tactical asset allocation. Furthermore, you
                                                 may be asked about the relative commission expense when comparing active and
                                                 passive management. It should be obvious that the more active the portfolio, the
                                                 greater role commissions will play in determining overall portfolio performance.


                        16. 2. 2. 1 Buy and Hold
                                     The buy and hold technique can be used with any investment style. A buy and hold
                                 manager rarely trades in the portfolio, which results in lower transaction costs and long-
                                 term capital gains taxes. A low expense ratio in a mutual fund often may reflect a buy and
                                 hold approach. This is the classic passive strategy used by investors for many years and is
                                 probably the easiest of all to implement and follow.
                                     With this strategy, there is always the question, “when do I sell?” As with most invest-
                                 ment strategies, there are varying opinions. On an individual investor level, one of the
                                 most common reasons for unloading a position is a change in objectives. This is certainly
                                 true as one ages, or if one has a windfall, such as an inheritance. Of course, if there is a




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 499                                                                                                               7/15/2016 2:03:24 PM
     500        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                 personal financial need, the asset will be sold to provide the necessary funds. Portfolio
                                 managers using this style may sell when the stock’s fundamentals have weakened, such as
                                 a sharp decrease in earnings, or a change in the competitive arena (think of what digital
                                 cameras did to Kodak). Another case would be when the company’s price to earnings ratio
                                 (P/E) has reached levels well above those for its competitors.



                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                        Maybe you’ve owned a car that was, so to speak, a lemon. That generally
                                                    means that you had high maintenance costs. Well, one point to know about the
                                                    buy and hold style is that it is just the opposite—it is low maintenance.


                   16. 2. 2. 2 Indexing
                                      Investment portfolios constructed to mirror the components of a particular stock
                                 index, such as the S&P 500, will normally perform in line with the index. Because such
                                 portfolios are not actively managed, the costs of managing the portfolio are relatively low.
                                 With less frequent portfolio turnover, these funds have lower transaction costs and tend
                                 to be more tax efficient. Because most professional money managers are unable to con-
                                 sistently outperform market indexes, indexed mutual fund portfolios are a popular invest-
                                 ment vehicle for investors. With the advent of index funds and ETFs, this has become a
                                 very popular passive strategy.



             16. 3           GROWTH VS. VALUE
                                     One of the longest running arguments in investment analysis is, “which is more suc-
                                 cessful, the growth style or the value style?” The father of value investing was Benjamin
                                 Graham and his text Security Analysis (co-authored with David Dodd) is still widely read
                                 today. The exam won’t ask you about Graham and Dodd, but will want you to know the
                                 essential features of both styles.


             16. 3. 1 GROWTH STYLE
                                     Portfolio managers using the growth style of portfolio management focus on stocks of
                                 companies whose earnings are growing faster than most other stocks and are expected to
                                 continue to do so. Because rapid growth in earnings is often priced into the stocks, growth
                                 investment managers are likely to buy stocks that are at the high end of their 52-week price
                                 range. Therefore, in the eyes of some, they might be buying stocks that are overvalued.



                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                         Growth managers are looking for earnings momentum.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 500                                                                                                         7/15/2016 2:03:24 PM
                                                                     Session 16   Portfolio Management Styles, Strategies, and Techniques      501




                   16. 3. 2 VALUE
                                     Portfolio managers using the value style of management concentrate on underval-
                                 ued or out-of-favor securities whose price is low relative to the company’s earnings or
                                 book value and whose earnings prospects are believed to be unattractive by investors and
                                 securities analysts. In fact, sometimes value managers think they can find a bargain with
                                 companies that are currently operating at a loss (no earnings, hence no P/E ratio). Value
                                 investment managers seek to buy undervalued securities before the company reports posi-
                                 tive earnings surprises. Their primary source of information is the company’s financial
                                 statements. Value investment managers are more likely to buy stocks that are at the bot-
                                 tom of their 52-week price range.



                               !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                      In addition to the pricing models expressed above, growth managers expect
                                                to see high P/E ratios (price to earnings ratios) or high price-to-book ratios with
                                                little or no dividends. On the other hand, value managers expect to see a low
                                                P/E ratio or low price-to-book ratio and dividends offering a reasonable yield.
                                                Another sign of a value stock is a large cash surplus, sometimes referred to as a
                                                rainy day fund.




                             *
                             EXAMPLE                  ABC Co. is a metal processor for parts used in the automotive industry. Earn-
                                                ings per share have grown by a compounded rate of 8% per year for the past 15
                                                years but are somewhat susceptible to downturns in the economy. The stock has
                                                paid a quarterly dividend that has increased five times in the past 10 years and
                                                the current market price of the stock is 6 times earnings. Conservatively man-
                                                aged, the company owns assets and cash that exceed the market value of its
                                                common stock. ABC would be attractive to value investors because its intrinsic
                                                value is higher than its market value, it appears to pay liberal dividends, and it is
                                                selling for a low earnings multiple.




                   16. 4      OTHER PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT STYLES
                                    In addition to those already described, there are several other styles you should be
                                 familiar with.


                   16. 4. 1 MARKET CAPITALIZATION
                                      Another portfolio management style is using market capitalization to influence secu-
                                 rity selection. Although the boundaries are imprecise, micro-cap companies are generally
                                 those with a market capitalization of less than $300 million; small-cap companies are gen-
                                 erally those with a market capitalization of between $300 million and $2 billion; mid-cap
                                 companies are those with $2 billion to $10 billion; and large-cap companies are those with
                                 more than $10 billion.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 501                                                                                                              7/15/2016 2:03:24 PM
     502        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                    It is generally assumed that small companies with a short history, small product line,
                                 and limited financial resources represent a larger degree of risk in an economic downturn.
                                 As revenues, product diversification, and financial worth increase, the relative risk the
                                 company carries in a weak economy diminishes.



                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                        Look out for numbers written in long form. For example, where would you
                                                    categorize a stock with a market capitalization of $5,000,000,000? Were you
                                                    able to fight through all of those zeroes to see that this is $5 billion and is a mid-
                                                    cap security?




                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                        In a strong economy, small, fast-moving companies with a concentrated
                                                    product line in a fast-growing sector can dramatically outperform larger, more
                                                    bureaucratic companies.



             16. 4. 2 CONTRARIAN
                                     A contrarian is an investment manager who takes positions opposite of that of other
                                 managers or in opposition to general market beliefs. In essence these managers buy when
                                 everyone else is selling and sell when everyone else is buying.


             16. 4. 3 INCOME VS. CAPITAL APPRECIATION
                                     At first glance, this might appear to be a rehashing of growth versus value and, although
                                 there are some similarities, you should be aware of what each of these styles represents


                   16. 4. 3. 1 Income
                                      As the term implies, the income style focuses on generating portfolio income. When
                                 dividends on common stock offer better income opportunities than interest on debt secu-
                                 rities, the portfolio will be overweight in that direction. Frequently, the search for income
                                 will lead the portfolio manager to foreign securities and/or high yield bonds. When rec-
                                 ommending a manager using this style, it is important to evaluate the risks being taken to
                                 provide income. For the most part, an income style relies heavily on debt securities.
                                      Most of the substance of the exam will deal with strategies employed in equity invest-
                                 ing, but you may be asked about several popular strategies used by bond buyers. Primarily,
                                 the goal in all of these strategies is to mitigate the effects of interest rate fluctuations on the
                                 value of the principal, the income received, or both. Three in particular are
                                 ■■ the barbell strategy;
                                 ■■ the bullet strategy; and
                                 ■■ the laddering strategy.

                                     All three of these are considered active rather than passive, and we will look at them
                                 individually.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 502                                                                                                                   7/15/2016 2:03:24 PM
                                                                     Session 16   Portfolio Management Styles, Strategies, and Techniques      503




                                16. 4. 3. 1. 1 Barbells
                                    Envision a barbell—what do you see? A thin bar with heavy weights of equal size on
                                each end. That’s what a bond portfolio using the barbell strategy looks like. The investor
                                purchases bonds maturing in one or two years and an equal amount maturing in 10 (or
                                more) years with no bonds in between.
                                    Assuming a normal yield curve, the long-term end of the barbell contains bonds offer-
                                ing the higher long-term interest rates, while the short-term end provides you with soon
                                to be realized cash (as they mature) that may be reinvested at higher rates if that is the
                                direction the market takes. This is not a passive strategy like buy and hold—you will be
                                actively buying new bonds as the old ones get closer to maturity.

                                16. 4. 3. 1. 2 Bullets
                                     For what do you use a bullet? You use it to hit a target, and that is the concept behind
                                the bullet strategy. Let’s say the target is funds for a child’s college education, and the child
                                is currently six years old. This strategy would have the investor purchase bonds today that
                                mature in 12 years (assuming college starting when the child is 18). Two years from now,
                                the investor should purchase some more bonds, but those should have a 10-year maturity.
                                In another two years, another purchase is made, this time of bonds that have eight years
                                to go, and so forth. A picture of this strategy would reveal bonds purchased at different
                                times but all maturing at the same time. This tends to allow the investor to capture current
                                interest rates as they change rather than having the entire portfolio locked into one rate.

                                16. 4. 3. 1. 3 Ladders
                                    Picture a ladder. You see rungs at set intervals going from bottom to top. That is the
                                concept behind a laddered portfolio. Unlike the bullet strategy described previously where
                                the bonds are bought at different times but all mature together, in a laddered strategy, the
                                bonds are all purchased at the same time but mature at different times (like the steps on
                                the ladder). As the shorter maturities come due, they are reinvested and now become the
                                long-term ones. This has also been a very common strategy with those purchasing CDs at
                                their local bank.


                        16. 4. 3. 2 Capital Appreciation
                                    Capital appreciation can take several forms, from moderate to aggressive. Although
                                growth stocks will frequently be found in these portfolios, the hunt for appreciation will
                                also involve options and/or futures, special situation stocks (potential takeover or merger
                                candidates), futures, IPOs, and day trading. When recommending a manager using this
                                style, it is critical to determine where on the risk scale, from lower to moderate to specula-
                                tive, this manager’s philosophy is. Then, and only then, can you attempt to match it with
                                your clients.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 503                                                                                                              7/15/2016 2:03:25 PM
     504        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                             Q
                 QUICK QUIZ 16.A                    Matching
                                                         A.   Indexing
                                                         B.   Growth investing
                                                         C.   Value investing
                                                         D.   Tactical asset allocation
                                                         E.   Strategic asset allocation

                                                    ____      1. Balancing portfolio assets for the long term

                                                    ____      2.	Selecting companies currently out of favor on the basis of earnings
                                                                  prospects

                                                    ____      3. Constructing a portfolio to mirror the performance of the S&P 500

                                                    ____      4.	Constructing a portfolio of companies that are outperforming most
                                                                  other stocks in that industry

                                                    ____      5. Involves short-term adjustments to portfolio asset class mix

                                                    Quick Quiz answers can be found at the end of the session.




             16. 5           CAPITAL MARKET THEORY
                                    There are several capital market theories, all with the goal of maximizing returns while
                                 minimizing risks.


             16. 5. 1 CAPITAL ASSET PRICING MODEL (CAPM)
                                      CAPM is a securities market investment theory that attempts to derive the expected
                                 return on an asset on the basis of the asset’s systematic risk. It was William Sharpe who
                                 first formulated the CAPM in the 1960s. The basic premise is that every investment car-
                                 ries two distinct risks; systematic, which cannot be diversified away, and unsystematic
                                 risk, which can be mitigated through appropriate diversification. As a result of this work,
                                 and its further refinements, Professor Sharpe was awarded the Nobel Prize in Economics
                                 in 1990 (that isn’t tested). You will see several applications of the CAPM in upcoming
                                 paragraphs.


             16. 5. 2 MODERN PORTFOLIO THEORY
                                      Modern portfolio theory is an approach that attempts to quantify and control portfo-
                                 lio risk. It differs from a traditional securities analysis in that it emphasizes determining the
                                 relationship between risk and reward in the total portfolio rather than analyzing specific
                                 securities. This is derived from the capital asset pricing model (CAPM), which states that
                                 the pricing of a stock must take into account two types of risks: systematic and unsystem-




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 504                                                                                                              7/15/2016 2:03:25 PM
                                                                       Session 16   Portfolio Management Styles, Strategies, and Techniques      505




                                 atic. Under the CAPM, the investor should be rewarded for the risks taken so it is proper
                                 to assume that the higher the risk, the higher the return.
                                      Instead of emphasizing particular stocks, modern portfolio theory (MPT) focuses on
                                 the relationships among all the investments in a portfolio. This theory holds that specific
                                 risk can be diversified away by building portfolios of assets whose returns are not correlated.
                                      MPT diversification allows investors to reduce the risk in a portfolio while simultane-
                                 ously increasing expected returns.
                                      Holding securities that tend to move in the same direction as one another does not
                                 lower an investor’s risk. Diversification reduces risk only when assets whose prices move
                                 inversely, or at different times, in relation to each other are combined.
                                      Harry Markowitz, founder of MPT, explained how to best assemble a diversified portfo-
                                 lio and proved that such a portfolio would likely do well. He proved that, all factors being
                                 equal, the portfolio with the least amount of volatility would do better than one with a
                                 greater amount of volatility.



                               !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                      The CAPM is used to provide an expected return on a security or portfolio
                                                  based on the level of risk.
                                                       This is sometimes referred to as designing the optimal portfolio. An opti-
                                                  mal portfolio is one that returns the highest rate of return consistent with the
                                                  amount of risk an investor is willing to take. In other words, an optimal portfolio
                                                  is the portfolio that makes the best trade-off between risk and reward for a given
                                                  investor’s investment profile.


                        16. 5. 2. 1 Efficient Portfolios/Efficient Frontier
                                     The goal of modern portfolio theory is to construct the most efficient portfolio. One
                                 selects the efficient set from the feasible set. The feasible set of portfolios represents all
                                 portfolios that can be constructed from a given set of equities. An efficient portfolio is one
                                 that offers:
                                 ■■ the most return for a given amount of risk; or
                                 ■■ the least risk for a given amount of return.

                                      The collection of efficient portfolios is called the efficient set or efficient frontier. This
                                 efficient frontier is plotted as a curve. The objective is for the portfolio to lie on the curve.
                                 Then, by being on the efficient frontier, the optimal portfolio has been created. Any port-
                                 folio that is below the curve (not an efficient one) is said to be taking too much risk for
                                 too little return.


                        16. 5. 2. 2 Capital Market Assumptions
                                     The capital market theory builds upon the Markowitz portfolio model. The main
                                 assumptions of the capital market theory are as follows.
                                     1. All investors can borrow or lend money at the risk-free rate of return.
                                     2.	All investors are rationale and evaluate investments in terms of expected return
                                         and variability (standard deviation). Therefore, given a set of security prices and




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 505                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:03:25 PM
     506        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                          a risk-free rate, all investors use the same information to generate an efficient
                                          frontier.
                                      3.	The time horizon is equal for all investors: when choosing investments, investors
                                          have equal time horizons for the chosen investments.
                                      4.	There are no transaction costs or personal income taxes; investors are indifferent
                                          between capital gains and dividends.
                                      5. There is no inflation.
                                      6.	All assets are infinitely divisible: this indicates that fractional shares can be pur-
                                          chased and the stocks can be infinitely divisible.
                                      7.	There is no mispricing within the capital markets: it is assumed that the markets
                                          are efficient and that no mispricings within the markets exist. Another way to
                                          state this is that capital markets are in equilibrium.


             16. 5. 3 CAPITAL MARKET LINE
                                     One of the offshoots of the CAPM is the capital market line (CML). The CML pro-
                                 vides an expected return based on the level of risk. The equation for the CML uses the:
                                 ■■ expected return of the portfolio;
                                 ■■ risk-free rate;
                                 ■■ return on the market;
                                 ■■ standard deviation of the market; and
                                 ■■ standard deviation of the portfolio.



                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                        Please note that alpha and beta are not used in the CML equation while
                                                    standard deviation is.

                                     The CML provides an expected return for a portfolio based on the expected return
                                 of the market, the risk-free rate of return, and the standard deviation of the portfolio in
                                 relation to the standard deviation of the market. The CML is generally used to evaluate
                                 diversified portfolios. The security market line (SML), which is derived from the CML,
                                 allows us to evaluate individual securities for use in a diversified portfolio.
                                     In focusing on a specific asset, the SML uses the following:
                                 ■■ The expected return for the asset
                                 ■■ The risk-free rate
                                 ■■ The return on the market
                                 ■■ The beta of the asset

                                      The security market line determines the expected return for a security on the basis of
                                 its beta and the expectations about the market and the risk-free rate. Basically, we want to
                                 determine how much over the risk-free rate we should earn for taking the investment risk.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 506                                                                                                         7/15/2016 2:03:25 PM
                                                                     Session 16   Portfolio Management Styles, Strategies, and Techniques      507




                             *
                             EXAMPLE                  If the beta of ABC Company is 1.2 and the market return is expected to be
                                                 13% with a risk-free return of 3%, then the expected return of ABC is 15%, as
                                                 follows:
                                                     We begin with the risk-free rate and then multiply the expected return in
                                                 excess of that rate by the stock’s beta.
                                                     3% + 1.2(13% – 3%) = 3% + 1.2(10%) = 3% + 12% = 15%

                                     Therefore, on the basis of the level of systematic risk of ABC Company, it should earn
                                 a return of 15%. The SML helps identify how the characteristics of a portfolio will be
                                 impacted when a security is added to the portfolio.


                   16. 5. 4 MONTE CARLO SIMULATIONS
                                     Monte Carlo simulation (MCS) is a risk analysis technique in which probable future
                                 events are simulated on a computer, generating estimated rates of return.
                                     MCSs, for example, can be used to randomly generate the behaviors of various asset
                                 classes to obtain the range of possible outcomes for a portfolio.
                                     MCSs are well suited to addressing:
                                 ■■ situations where no real-world data exist;
                                 ■■ problems with unknown variables; and
                                 ■■ problems for which no analytical solution exists.

                                     MCSs are commonly used in personal financial planning for wealth forecasting with
                                 estimated cash flows.




                             *
                             EXAMPLE                A client might want to know how long a portfolio will last in retirement, or
                                                 what the odds are that a portfolio will be depleted before he dies.

                                     If there were no cash flows into or out of the portfolio, the time frame was long enough,
                                 and we could be assured of receiving the historical average returns for each asset class, it
                                 would be fairly easy to forecast the future value of a portfolio without resorting to MCSs.
                                 In such an example, we are only solving for the terminal value of the portfolio, so the
                                 sequence of returns does not matter.
                                     For an individual entering retirement, the timing of the cash flows out of the portfolio
                                 and the sequence of returns are critical.




                             *
                             EXAMPLE                  Consider two clients, Mr. Jones and Ms. Smith. Both enter retirement with $1
                                                 million, both withdraw $50,000 per year from their portfolios, and both portfolios
                                                 generate an average return of 10% over the life of the portfolios. Their yearly
                                                 results are the same, but they come in different sequences. Mr. Jones experiences
                                                 15 up years followed by 5 down years. Ms. Smith experiences 5 down years fol-




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 507                                                                                                              7/15/2016 2:03:25 PM
     508        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                                    lowed by 15 up years. Mr. Jones will be better off than Ms. Smith, because Ms.
                                                    Smith will deplete her portfolio in the early years, and hence her portfolio will not
                                                    benefit fully from the positive return years down the line.

                                       The concept of ill-timed cash flows may be easy for experienced advisers to grasp, but
                                 it is not one that clients readily understand. Through the use of MCSs, advisers can easily
                                 generate charts and graphs to educate clients about sequential return issues.


             16. 5. 5 EFFICIENT MARKET HYPOTHESIS
                                     The efficient market hypothesis maintains that security prices adjust rapidly to new
                                 information with security prices fully reflecting all available information. In other words,
                                 markets are efficiently priced as a result. This is sometimes referred to as the random walk
                                 theory. The random walk theory would suggest that throwing darts at the stock listings is
                                 as good a method as any for selecting stocks for investment.
                                     Eugene F. Fama, (announced as a co-winner of the Nobel Prize for economics shortly
                                 before publication of this edition), coined the term in a 1965 Financial Analysts Journal
                                 article entitled “Random Walks in Stock Market Prices”:

                                           In an efficient market, competition among the many intelligent participants
                                      leads to a situation where, at any point in time, actual prices of individual securities
                                      already reflect the effects of information based both on events that have already
                                      occurred and on events which, as of now, the market expects to take place in the
                                      future. In other words, in an efficient market at any point in time, the actual price
                                      of a security will be a good estimate of its intrinsic value.

                                     There are three versions of the EMH based upon the level of available information.
                                 The more information available, the more likely it is that you should be able to beat the
                                 market. But, as we will see, under this theory the conclusion is, that under all circum-
                                 stances, there is no way to accurately predict stock prices, and a passive strategy is probably
                                 the most suitable for investment success.


                   16. 5. 5. 1 Weak-Form Market Efficiency
                                     The weak form of the efficient markets hypothesis (EMH) states that current security
                                 prices fully reflect all currently available security market data. Thus, past price and volume
                                 (market) information will have no predictive power about the future direction of security
                                 prices because price changes will be independent from one period to the next. In a weak-
                                 form efficient market, an investor cannot achieve positive risk-adjusted returns on average
                                 by using technical analysis.


                   16. 5. 5. 2 Semi-Strong Form Market Efficiency
                                      The semi-strong form of the EMH holds that security prices rapidly adjust without
                                 bias to the arrival of all new public information. As such, current security prices fully
                                 reflect all publicly available information. The semi-strong form says security prices include all
                                 past security market information and nonmarket information available to the public. The




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 508                                                                                                                  7/15/2016 2:03:25 PM
                                                                              Session 16   Portfolio Management Styles, Strategies, and Techniques      509




                                     implication is that an investor cannot achieve positive risk-adjusted returns on average
                                     by using fundamental analysis. Therefore, it could be said that fundamental analysts are
                                     relying on beating weak-form EMH.


                        16. 5. 5. 3 Strong-Form Market Efficiency
                                          The strong form of the EMH states that security prices fully reflect all information from
                                     both public and private sources. The strong form includes all types of information: past secu-
                                     rity market, public, and private (inside) information. This means that no group of inves-
                                     tors has monopolistic access to information relevant to the formation of prices, and none
                                     should be able to consistently achieve positive abnormal returns.
                                          Although some would disagree, the prevailing opinion is that the only thing that will
                                     work in this case is random walk— just throwing darts because the market is totally effi-
                                     cient with market prices quickly adjusting to reflect new information.



                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                             According to the EMH, if a financial market is weakly efficient, technical
                                                        analysis will be useless, but it is still possible to use fundamental analysis to seek
                                                        out mispriced investments. On the other hand, if a financial market is semi-
                                                        strongly efficient, there is no point in using any fundamental analysis tools—all
                                                        of that information is already in the hands of all investors. If a financial market is
                                                        strongly efficient, then everything, including information generally only available
                                                        to insiders is known and, without an edge, there is no benefit to be gained by
                                                        using any analytical tools.




                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                             As a base level knowledge of the EMH, you should know that the weak form
                                                        is based on past security market information; the semi-strong form is based on all
                                                        public information (including market information); and the strong form is based
                                                        on both public information and inside or private information.
                                                            The following chart may help you with EMH.

                                                                          The Three Forms of EHM
                                          Form                 Won’t Work                                  Will Work
                                          Weak                 Technical Analysis                          Fundamental analysis and
                                                                                                           Insider information
                                          Semi-strong          Technical and Fundamental analysis          Insider information
                                          Strong               Technical and Fundamental analysis          Random Walk
                                                               and Insider information




                                  !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                            You may have to know that there is no such term as semi-weak EMH. Can’t
                                                        imagine what would be weaker than weak anyway.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 509                                                                                                                       7/15/2016 2:03:25 PM
     510        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                             Q
                 QUICK QUIZ 16.B                    1.   Followers of the efficient market hypothesis believe that
                                                         A.   following the business cycle is the best way to maximize returns
                                                         B.   concentration rather than diversification will produce superior returns
                                                         C.   by following the pundits on TV, you’ll wind up rich
                                                         D.   an efficient market is one that produces random results

                                                    2.   You have a client who has recently retired. A pressing question is, “How
                                                         much can be withdrawn without running out of money?” One of the popu-
                                                         lar techniques for approximating an answer is by using
                                                         A.   the random walk hypothesis
                                                         B.   Monte Carlo simulations
                                                         C.   LIBOR approximations
                                                         D.   portfolio rebalancing

                                                    3.   The expected return on the market is 15%, the risk-free rate is 8%, and the
                                                         beta for Stock A is 1.2. Compute the rate of return that would be expected
                                                         (required) on this stock.
                                                         A.   7%
                                                         B.   8.4%
                                                         C.   16.4%
                                                         D.   18%




             16. 6           PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT TECHNIQUES
                                      The term diversification has been used many times already in this manual. The term is
                                 a common one in our everyday life, not restricted to investing. As a technique in portfolio
                                 management, portfolio diversification (i.e., committing to an array of separate invest-
                                 ments) reduces unsystematic risk, such as business risk, and enhances returns. The securi-
                                 ties in a diversified portfolio are selected, in part, because they do not tend to move up or
                                 down in relation to each other; when some go down, the loss is offset by those that rise.
                                 That is the concept we covered with correlation coefficient. This kind of diversification is
                                 enhanced by the addition of foreign securities to a portfolio because they are usually not
                                 highly correlated with domestic equity.
                                      There are many ways to classify investment and financial products. The investment
                                 pyramid, for example, categorizes products according to their risk and return potential.
                                 Another way is to group similar products into specific classes. These classes are generally
                                 defined as the following:
                                 ■■ Cash and cash equivalents—passbook savings and checking accounts; money-market
                                      accounts; money-market funds; certificates of deposit; T-bills
                                 ■■ Fixed-income investments—corporate bonds; municipal bonds; Treasury bonds; bond
                                      funds; mortgage-backed securities
                                 ■■ Equities—preferred and common stocks of all kinds: growth, income appreciation;
                                      stock mutual funds
                                 ■■ Hard assets—real estate, collectibles, precious metals, and stones




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 510                                                                                                              7/15/2016 2:03:25 PM
                                                                          Session 16   Portfolio Management Styles, Strategies, and Techniques      511




                                          Each of these asset classes, as a whole, responds differently to different types of risk;
                                     therefore, diversifying or allocating investment resources among these classes is a proven
                                     way to reduce risk overall, dampen volatility, and improve the performance of one’s portfo-
                                     lio. Fixed-income products, for example, are a hedge against deflation; equities are a hedge
                                     against inflation. To minimize market risk, one could diversify among all four asset cat-
                                     egories (with additional diversification within the equities category). To minimize interest
                                     rate risk, one could diversify within the fixed-income category by staggering bond maturity
                                     dates. To minimize business risk, one could allocate among the four categories and pur-
                                     chase mutual funds. To reduce liquidity risk, one would keep a sufficient portion of assets
                                     in cash or cash equivalent assets.


                   16. 6. 1 DIVERSIFYING WITHIN ASSET CATEGORIES
                                          Diversification is not a synonym for asset allocation. For example, an aggressive young
                                     professional may invest almost exclusively in common stock. That would be a single asset
                                     class. But, within that asset class of common stock, the portfolio might consist the shares
                                     of a dozen or more different companies in varied industries.


                   16. 6. 2 DIVERSIFYING WITHIN ASSET CLASSES
                                        Although asset allocation does not guarantee diversification (it is possible to be con-
                                     centrated in one or two investments in each class), a proper asset allocation program will
                                     generally consist of enough securities in each class to offer broad diversification.


                   16. 6. 3 SECTOR ROTATING
                                          Sector rotating is sometimes called sector rotation. Different sectors of the economy
                                     are stronger at different points in the economic cycle. Each industry sector follows its cycle
                                     as dictated by the stage of the economy. Portfolio managers attempt to buy into the next
                                     sector that is about to experience a move up. When an industry sector reaches the peak of
                                     its move as defined by the business cycle, it is time to start to sell the sector.
                                          Of course, how do you know when to make the switch to a sector that has greater
                                     potential? If you jump the gun, your performance will suffer, and you’re more likely to have
                                     losses. Conversely, waiting too long to make the move will cause you to miss much of the
                                     uptrend and most of the profit opportunity.
                                          That is why most advisers recommend being in more than one sector at the same time.
                                     The idea is to buy into the sector that is rising toward the top and then hold it until it turns
                                     down. As a sector turns down, the advisers rotate their clients to the next sector that is
                                     rising toward the top and is expected to outperform. This strategy often means your client
                                     will be holding a minimum of three sectors in their portfolio: one sector on the rise, one
                                     at the top, and one that is starting to decline.



                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                          One way to phrase sector rotation is “overweighting or underweighting
                                                      industries based on the current phase of the business cycle.”




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 511                                                                                                                   7/15/2016 2:03:25 PM
     512        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




             16. 7           AVERAGING TECHNIQUES
                                     One common fear of investors is buying at the top of the market. One can never know
                                 when a bull market will reverse its course. Conversely, we all want to get in at the bot-
                                 tom, but how do you know when the bear market is over? Because no one knows all of the
                                 answers, one popular technique is time-based investing to average your cost. Popular time-
                                 based investment programs used by investors include dollar cost averaging and income
                                 reinvestment.


             16. 7. 1 DOLLAR COST AVERAGING
                                      Investors use dollar cost averaging as a means to invest consistent amounts of money
                                 in a mutual fund or stock at regular periodic intervals, such as monthly or quarterly. This
                                 form of investing allows the individual to purchase more shares when prices are low and
                                 fewer shares when prices are high. This has the effect of reducing timing risk, the risk that
                                 all of your money will be invested at a market top. In a fluctuating market, the average cost
                                 per share is lower than the average price per share.




                             *
                         EXAMPLE



                                           Month
                                           January
                                           February
                                                        The following table illustrates how average price and average cost may vary
                                                    with dollar cost averaging.

                                                               Amount Invested
                                                                     $600
                                                                     $600
                                                                                       Price per Share
                                                                                              $20
                                                                                              $24
                                                                                                               No. of Shares
                                                                                                                    30
                                                                                                                    25
                                           March                     $600                     $30                   20
                                           April                     $600                     $40                   15
                                           Total                   $2,400                    $114                   90

                                                         The average cost per share equals $2,400 (the total investment) divided by
                                                    90 (the total number of shares purchased), or $26.67 per share, whereas the
                                                    average price per share is $28.50 ($114 ÷ 4). With any market fluctuations, this
                                                    strategy will produce a lower cost ($26.67) than average price ($28.50). This av-
                                                    erage cost of $26.67, not the average price paid of $28.50, is the investor’s cost
                                                    basis when the shares are subsequently sold.




                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                        Although it is unlikely that you will have to compute the average price or
                                                    average cost per share, a question may ask the purpose of dollar cost averaging.
                                                    The purpose of dollar cost averaging is to reduce the investor’s average cost to
                                                    acquire a security over the buying period relative to its average price.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 512                                                                                                               7/15/2016 2:03:25 PM
                                                                    Session 16   Portfolio Management Styles, Strategies, and Techniques      513




                   16. 7. 2 INCOME REINVESTMENT
                                    Stocks and bonds normally pay dividends and interest in cash, and the investor only
                                realizes a capital gain or loss when the investment is sold. Mutual funds normally allow
                                dividends, interest, and capital gains to be automatically reinvested in the fund shares at
                                the net asset value (NAV) per share.


                        16. 7. 2. 1 Dividend Reinvestment Plans
                                     Some corporations offer their shareholders the opportunity to purchase additional
                                stock using their cash dividend. Under most dividend reinvestment plans (DRIPs), the
                                shareholder is entitled to purchase the additional shares directly from the issuer paying
                                little or no commission and often at a discount to market price. In fact, most companies
                                permit investors in these plans to add money along with the reinvested dividend.


                   16. 7. 3 CAPITAL GOAL WITHIN A SPECIFIED TIME PERIOD
                                    When saving for higher education, or retirement, there is a stated goal and a specified
                                time period. In the case of college saving, for example, the investor knows how many years
                                until the child will enter and there are plenty of sources indicating what the costs might
                                be at that time. There may be a lump sum (say from an inheritance), a periodic payment
                                out of cash flow, or both, that is available to save towards the goal. Saving for retirement is
                                a bit trickier because we don’t know exactly when the client will retire. Fortunately, there
                                are tax-advantaged plans for both goals and these are covered in Session 20.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 513                                                                                                             7/15/2016 2:03:25 PM
       514         Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




             Q U I C K               Q U I Z           A N S W E R S

        Quick Quiz 16.A                                                      Quick Quiz 16.B

           1. E.                                                               1. D.   EMH is really just an extension of the
                                                                                       Random Walk Theory, which states that
           2. C.                                                                       throwing darts at the stock market page is as
                                                                                       good as any way to select investments. If the
           3. A.
                                                                                       market is truly efficient, no one has an edge.
           4. B.
                                                                               2. B.   One of the uses of Monte Carlo simulations
           5. D.                                                                       is to run thousands of potential scenarios to
                                                                                       determine what withdrawal rate will likely
                                                                                       last as long as your client does.

                                                                               3. C.   We take the risk-free rate of 8% and add that
                                                                                       to the product of the stock’s beta and the
                                                                                       (expected return minus the risk-free rate).
                                                                                       Expressed in numbers, it is 8% + 1.2(15% –
                                                                                       8%) or 8% + 1.2 (7%) = 16.4%




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 514                                                                                                              7/15/2016 2:03:25 PM
                             17
                             Tax Considerations


                             T
                                   axes on income and capital gains diminish the amount of money
                                   available to the person who earns it. As a result, personal and busi-
                                   ness investment decisions are often influenced by the tax implica-
                             tions.
                                 The Series 66 exam will include 2 questions on the material covered in
                             this session. ■




                                                                                                           515




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 515                                                                          7/15/2016 2:03:25 PM
            OBJECTIVES


                                 When you have completed this session, you should be able to:

                             ■■ explain such terms as marginal tax bracket and effective tax rate;

                             ■■ identify the different types of business taxation;

                             ■■ distinguish between income and capital gain;

                             ■■ describe the fundamentals of estate and gift taxation; and

                             ■■ list the preference items included in the AMT computation.




      516




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 516                                                                           7/15/2016 2:03:26 PM
                                                                                                     Session 17   Tax Considerations      517




                   17. 1     INDIVIDUAL INCOME TAXES
                                  Taxes function as either regressive or progressive costs. Regressive taxes (e.g., sales,
                              excise, payroll, property, and gasoline taxes) are levied at the same rate regardless of income
                              and thus represent a smaller percentage of income for wealthy taxpayers than for taxpay-
                              ers with lower incomes. Because low-income families spend a larger percentage of their
                              incomes than they save or invest, regressive taxes consume a larger fraction of the income
                              of the poor than of the wealthy. Progressive taxes (e.g., estate and income taxes) increase
                              the tax rate as income increases. Progressive taxes are costlier to people with high incomes
                              than to people with low incomes. This session will deal with taxation on the federal level
                              with specific reference to state taxes when necessary.



                             !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                   In a progressive tax system, the term used to describe the highest rate paid
                                              on income (sometimes referred to as the next dollar received, or the last dol-
                                              lar received), is the individual’s marginal tax rate. For example, in 2011, a single
                                              individual with taxable income in excess of $174,400 was taxed on each dollar
                                              earned above that amount at a rate of 33% until reaching $379,150, at which
                                              time the excess was taxed at 35%. Therefore, if this individual reported earn-
                                              ings of $200,000, it is proper to say that the marginal tax rate is 33%. If the
                                              individual earned $400,000, then it would be 35%. Because of changes due to
                                              the Affordable Care Act (Obamacare), for 2015, any individual reporting more
                                              than $413,200 in taxable income moves into the 39.6% tax bracket (more than
                                              $464,850 for those filing jointly).



                   17. 1. 1 EARNED INCOME
                                  Earned income includes salary, bonuses, and income derived from active participation
                              in a trade or business.


                   17. 1. 2 ALIMONY
                                  Alimony is payment made under a (divorce) court order (or under a legal separation
                              agreement) to an ex-spouse. Alimony may be paid directly to the ex-spouse or to a third
                              party on the ex-spouse’s behalf (e.g., to pay premiums on the ex-spouse’s life insurance
                              or contribute to the ex-spouse’s IRA). Alimony payments, within limits, are generally
                              deductible to the spouse making the payments and includable in income for tax purposes
                              by the spouse receiving them.


                   17. 1. 3 CHILD SUPPORT
                                  Alimony should not be confused with child support. Child support is a legal obliga-
                              tion of a parent to provide financial support for a child (typically occurring when the par-
                              ent providing the support is not the parent with whom the child or children lives). Child
                              support is not deductible by the parent who pays it, nor is it includable in income by the
                              recipient, who is often the other parent receiving the support on behalf of the child of the
                              dissolved marriage.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 517                                                                                                         7/15/2016 2:03:26 PM
     518        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                             *
                         EXAMPLE                         Chuck and Alice divorced after a 10-year marriage that produced two
                                                    children, Tim, age 6, and Kim, age 8. Under a court order, it is decided that
                                                    Chuck will pay Alice $1,000 per month in alimony and $600 per child per
                                                    month ($1,200 in total child support). Chuck may deduct $12,000 for the tax
                                                    year ($1,000 × 12 months) on his federal income tax return. Alice must report
                                                    $12,000 for the tax year on her federal income tax return. Chuck cannot deduct
                                                    any of the child support, nor is any of it reportable for income tax by Alice or
                                                    their children.




                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                        For purposes of an IRA contribution, alimony is considered eligible income
                                                    while child support is not.



             17. 1. 4 PASSIVE INCOME
                                     Passive income and losses come from rental property, limited partnerships, and enter-
                                 prises (regardless of business structure) in which an individual does not actively partici-
                                 pate. For the general partner, income from a limited partnership is earned income; for the
                                 limited partner, the income is passive. Passive income is netted against passive losses to
                                 determine net taxable income. Passive losses may be used to offset only passive income.


                   17. 1. 4. 1 Personal Use of Vacation Property
                                      One form of passive income is rental income, particularly rental of real estate. One of
                                 the issues that is of concern to those who own rental property, particularly in a resort area,
                                 is the number of days the owner may use that property before the IRS will no longer treat
                                 it as a business. That means that the deductions that could normally be taken for operat-
                                 ing a rental property business (utilities, maintenance, depreciation, and so forth) will be
                                 disallowed.
                                      You are considered to use a dwelling unit as a home (and not as a business) if you use
                                 it for personal purposes during the tax year for more than the greater of 14 days or 10%
                                 of the total days it is rented to others at a fair rental price. It is possible that you will use
                                 more than one dwelling unit as a home during the year. For example, if you live in your
                                 main home for 11 months, your home is a dwelling unit used as a home. If you live in your
                                 vacation home for the other one month of the year, your vacation home is also a dwelling
                                 unit used as a home unless you rent your vacation home to others at a fair rental value for
                                 300 or more days during the year.


             17. 1. 5 PORTFOLIO INCOME
                                       Portfolio income includes dividends, interest, and net capital gains derived from the
                                 sale of securities. No matter what the source of the income, it is taxed in the year in which
                                 it is earned.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 518                                                                                                             7/15/2016 2:03:26 PM
                                                                                                        Session 17   Tax Considerations      519




                        17. 1. 5. 1 Dividend Income
                                    If the dividend qualifies (you probably don’t need to know the technical points that
                                make a dividend qualify, but we have given the details in the glossary at qualified divi-
                                dend), the tax rate is generally a maximum of 15%. (It can be as high as 20% or more for
                                very high income taxpayers, but that is unlikely to be tested.) Otherwise, the dividend is
                                taxed at ordinary income rates. For test purposes, assume that any dividend from a U.S.
                                corporation is qualified, unless the question states otherwise.


                        17. 1. 5. 2 Interest Income
                                    Interest on any debt security (other than tax-free municipal issues) is always taxed
                                at ordinary income rates. Please note that interest on U.S. Treasury securities (but not
                                GMNA and FNMA debt) is exempt from state taxation, but not federal. Furthermore,
                                income distributions from bond funds are not qualified dividends and are taxed fully as
                                ordinary income.



                              !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                    In the case of TIPS, the taxation is a bit different. Being Treasury securities,
                                                they are exempt from state and local income tax. However, the annual interest
                                                payment received is taxable on a federal basis as ordinary income and, what is
                                                reminiscent of the tax treatment of a zero-coupon bond discussed in Session 5,
                                                the annual increase to the principal is taxed as well.


                        17. 1. 5. 3 Taxation of Reinvested Distributions
                                    Distributions are taxable to shareholders whether the distributions are taken in cash
                                or reinvested. The issuer must disclose whether each distribution comes from income or
                                realized capital gains. Form 1099, which is sent to shareholders after the close of the year,
                                details tax information related to distributions for the year. Dividends must be reported as
                                dividend income and will be taxed either as ordinary income or as a qualifying dividend,
                                generally with a maximum rate of 15%; capital gains distributions from mutual funds are
                                generally reported as a long-term capital gain.



                              !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                     One term you might see on the exam refers to an interest-on-interest plan
                                                and it will be compared to a dividend reinvestment plan. What is the exam refer-
                                                ring to? This is nothing other than a typical bank savings account where your
                                                interest compounds, usually quarterly. Therefore, you are earning interest on the
                                                interest. From a tax standpoint this interest, just like reinvested dividends, is tax-
                                                able in the year received.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 519                                                                                                            7/15/2016 2:03:26 PM
     520        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                   17. 1. 5. 4 The Effect of Reinvestments on Cost Basis
                                      Because the taxes have already been paid on any income reinvested, when the inves-
                                 tor sells the asset, the cost basis is increased so that the income is not taxed again.




                             *
                         EXAMPLE                          An investor purchases 100 shares of KAPCO common stock for $100 per
                                                    share and elects to participate in KAPCO’s Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRIP).
                                                    During the next five years, the investor receives dividends totaling $2,200, which
                                                    has allowed the purchase of 20 additional shares through the DRIP. With KAPCO
                                                    selling at $110 per share, the investor liquidates the entire position. For tax
                                                    purposes, the investor has a capital gain of $1,000, even though the proceeds are
                                                    $3,200 more than the original investment. Here’s the math:
                                                        Purchase – 100 shares @ $100 = $10,000. Add the reinvested dividends of
                                                    $2,200 to increase the cost basis to $12,200. Sell all the shares (100 + the 20
                                                    acquired through the DRIP) = 120 × $110 = $13,200. The proceeds exceed the
                                                    adjusted cost basis by $1,000 and that is the amount of capital gain.




                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                         Regardless of fluctuations in the market price, as long as a dividend is paid,
                                                    an investor participating in a DRIP will always have more shares in his account at
                                                    the end of the year than at the beginning.



             17. 1. 6 RETIREMENT PLAN DISTRIBUTIONS
                                      Qualified retirement plan distributions are, with few exceptions, taxed at the inves-
                                 tor’s ordinary income tax rate when funds are withdrawn from the plan. Distributions
                                 from a qualified plan before the investor reaches age 59½ are also subject to a 10% early
                                 withdrawal penalty). Distributions from a qualified plan must begin by April 1 following
                                 the year the participant reaches 70½.More on this in Session 20.


             17. 1. 7 ALTERNATIVE MINIMUM TAX
                                     Congress enacted the alternative minimum tax (AMT) to ensure that high-income
                                 taxpayers do not escape federal income taxes. Certain items that receive favorable tax
                                 treatment must be added back into taxable income for the AMT and include the following:
                                 ■■ Accelerated depreciation on property placed in service after 1986
                                 ■■ Certain costs associated with limited partnership programs, such as research and
                                     development costs and excess intangible drilling costs
                                 ■■ Local tax and interest on investments that do not generate income
                                 ■■ Tax-exempt interest on private purpose municipal bonds issued after August 7, 1986.
                                     Examples of these private purpose or private activity bonds that makes them subject to
                                     the AMT would be those issued to finance sports stadiums, hospitals, housing projects,
                                     and so forth.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 520                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:03:26 PM
                                                                                                          Session 17   Tax Considerations      521




                                     ■■ Incentive stock options (ISO) to the extent that the fair market value of the employ-
                                        er’s stock is in excess of the strike price of the option, even when the stock is not sold
                                        in that year

                                        In addition, the AMT can lead to a loss of:
                                     ■■ personal exemptions;
                                     ■■ deductions for state income tax and property tax; and
                                     ■■ deductions for home equity line interest in some cases.

                                         To determine if you owe AMT, you compute your regular tax and then you compute
                                     the AMT and pay whichever is the higher amount. The IRS has an unusual way of stat-
                                     ing this. They say that the AMT is the regular tax plus the amount by which the AMT
                                     exceeds the regular tax. So, if the AMT computation shows $12,000 due and the regular
                                     shows $10,000 due, you take that $10,000 and add the amount by which $12,000 exceeds
                                     $10,000 ($2,000) to arrive at $12,000. Wouldn’t saying, “Pay the higher of the two,” be
                                     easier? It sure would, but then that might put some accountants out of business, just like
                                     simplifying the tax code would do.



                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                          Items that must be added back in for the purpose of the AMT computation
                                                     are sometimes called tax preference items. If the tax liability computed under the
                                                     AMT computation is greater than the taxpayer’s regular tax computation, the
                                                     taxpayer must pay the AMT amount.




                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                          The IRS provides for an exemption amount with AMT being potentially
                                                     levied only if taxable income exceeds that amount. Like almost every number
                                                     mentioned, it changes annually and is never tested. But, for your information, the
                                                     2015 AMT exemption amouts are:
                                                         ■■ $53,600 if filing single or head of household

                                                         ■■ $83,400 if married filing jointly

                                                         ■■ $41,700 if married filing separately



                   17. 1. 8 MARGIN EXPENSES
                                         Margin interest is a tax-deductible expense. The one exception is interest expenses
                                     incurred in the purchase of municipal securities. Because municipal interest income is fed-
                                     erally tax exempt, the IRS does not allow taxpayers to deduct the margin interest expenses
                                     for municipal securities. Investors can deduct interest expenses incurred when borrowing
                                     money to purchase other securities to the extent those interest expenses do not exceed
                                     their net investment income, which includes interest income, dividends, and all capital
                                     gains.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 521                                                                                                              7/15/2016 2:03:26 PM
     522        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




             17. 1. 9 EFFECTIVE TAX RATE
                                     In an earlier Test Topic Alert, we introduced you to the term marginal tax rate. That
                                 should not be confused with the individual’s effective tax rate. What is the difference?
                                 As stated earlier, the marginal tax rate is the rate you pay on each additional dollar you
                                 receive as income. The effective tax rate, however, is the overall rate of tax you pay on
                                 your total taxable income. The following example should help you visualize the difference.




                             *
                         EXAMPLE                         In the Test Topic Alert, we showed you how a single person with $200,000
                                                    in taxable income was paying taxes at a marginal rate of 33%. That is, a bonus of
                                                    $3,000 would result in an additional tax liability of $990, ($3,000 x 33%). That
                                                    33% rate was in effect for all income in excess of $174,400. According to the tax
                                                    tables (and absolutely not tested), the tax on that first $174,400 is $42,449 and
                                                    then everything above that (until $379,150) is taxed at 33%.
                                                          So, for the single individual with $200,000 of taxable income, the total tax
                                                    bill would be $42,449 + (33% x $25,600) or $42,449 + $8,448, which is a total
                                                    tax of $50,897. That means that out of $200,000 in income, slightly more than
                                                    25% of it ($50,897 divided by $200,000) went to pay tax. This works out to be
                                                    an effective tax rate of 25.45%.



             17. 1. 10 TAX FILING STATUS
                                      The choice of filing status one makes has a major impact on the amount of taxes lev-
                                 ied. There are five different filing statuses:
                                 ■■ Single
                                 ■■ Married filing jointly
                                 ■■ Married filing separately
                                 ■■ Head of household
                                 ■■ Qualifying widow(er) with dependent child

                                     Filing status is determined by your marital status as of the last day of the year. If more
                                 than one filing status applies to the taxpayer, the IRS suggests using the one resulting in
                                 the lowest tax obligation. Generally, that will be married filing jointly. For those who are
                                 not married, if qualifying, the lowest rate is usually obtained by filing as head of household.



                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                        How you file a return can impact your taxes. Your tax filing status is based
                                                    on your marital status as of the end of the year (December 31). In the case of a
                                                    “single” parent with dependent children, it will generally be most advantageous
                                                    to use the filing status, “head of household.”




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 522                                                                                                               7/15/2016 2:03:26 PM
                                                                                                      Session 17   Tax Considerations      523




                              !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                      As you can see, there are a number of ways of generating taxable income—
                                                 from operating a business, such as a sole proprietorship, being an employee and
                                                 receiving a salary, being an owner of a business organized as an S corporation
                                                 or LLC, and receiving dividends and interest from stocks and bonds or other
                                                 investments. However, when you are the beneficiary of a life insurance policy,
                                                 death benefit proceeds are not taxable as income. As we will see in a few pages,
                                                 the death benefit might be subject to estate tax, but it is not considered taxable
                                                 income for purposes of paying income tax.



                   17. 1. 11 TAXATION AND LIFE INSURANCE

                        17. 1. 11. 1 Income Tax Implications of Life Insurance
                                     Premiums for individually purchased life insurance are generally nondeductible for
                                 income tax purposes. Generally, proceeds from life insurance policies made to a beneficiary
                                 are exempt from federal income tax.


                        17. 1. 11. 2 Estate Tax Implications to Owning Life Insurance
                                      If someone named as the insured individual on a life insurance policy holds incidents
                                 of ownership in that policy, the entire death benefit payable under that policy is included
                                 for federal estate tax purposes in the insured individual’s estate.
                                      If a person retains the right to designate a beneficiary, transfer ownership of an insur-
                                 ance policy (assign), choose how dividends or policy proceeds will be paid out, borrow
                                 money from the accumulated cash value of the policy, or perform any other functions that
                                 are rights of ownership, then that person has incidents of ownership in the policy.


                        17. 1. 11. 3 Irrevocable Life Insurance Trust
                                      In light of the estate tax implications, it is frequently best that a party other than the
                                 insured own the life insurance policy in order to remove the proceeds from the estate of
                                 the insured. An effective alternative to ownership of a policy on one’s own life is to have
                                 the life insurance acquired by or transferred to an irrevocable life insurance trust (ILIT).
                                 If certain provisions, known as Crummey powers, are included in the ILIT document, pre-
                                 miums paid by the insured may qualify for the annual gift tax exclusion (currently $14,000
                                 per year, per beneficiary).


                        17. 1. 11. 4 Policy Loans
                                     When you borrow cash value from your life insurance policy, the funds received are
                                 non-taxable. This is the same as any other borrowed money—it isn’t your money and must
                                 be paid back at some time in the future. Note that if you never pay it back, the amount of
                                 the loan will be deducted from the death benefit (the insurance company will finally get
                                 back the money).




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 523                                                                                                          7/15/2016 2:03:27 PM
     524        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                   17. 1. 11. 5 Policy Surrender
                                     If a variable life insurance policy is surrendered, any cash value in excess of the basis
                                 in the policy (the premiums paid) is taxable as ordinary income.


                   17. 1. 11. 6 Withdrawal of Cash Value
                                     If there is a partial withdrawal of cash value from a variable life insurance policy,
                                 the FIFO (first in first out) rules apply. This is unlike the LIFO treatment on an annuity.
                                 Therefore, there are no tax consequences until the amount withdrawn exceeds the cost
                                 basis in the policy.




                             Q
                 QUICK QUIZ 17.A                    1.   An investor who would like to increase current income from investments
                                                         and, at the same time, pay taxes on that income at less than his marginal tax
                                                         rate, would probably find which of the following to be most suitable?
                                                         A.   U.S. Treasury bonds
                                                         B.   Public utility stock
                                                         C.   Growth stock
                                                         D.   Money market mutual fund

                                                    2.   In most cases, the tax filing status that results in the highest income tax is
                                                         A.   head of household
                                                         B.   married filing jointly
                                                         C.   qualifying widower with a dependant child
                                                         D.   single

                                                    Quick Quiz answers can be found at the end of the session.




             17. 2           CAPITAL GAINS AND LOSSES
                                     The sale of a security can result in a capital gain or a capital loss. A capital gain occurs
                                 when a security is sold for a price higher than its cost basis; if the selling price is lower than
                                 the cost basis, a capital loss occurs.


             17. 2. 1 ADJUSTING COST BASIS
                                      An investment’s cost basis (total cost of the investment) is used to determine whether
                                 a capital gain or a capital loss occurs when an asset is sold. Because many factors affect an
                                 asset’s cost basis, the IRS requires the cost basis to be adjusted for such occurrences as stock
                                 splits and stock dividends.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 524                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:03:27 PM
                                                                                                            Session 17   Tax Considerations      525




                               *
                              EXAMPLE                     An investor buys 100 shares of RST at $55. Later, the company declares a
                                                     stock dividend and the investor receives 10 more shares. His total investment
                                                     remains $5,500, but he now owns 110 shares of RST. The investor’s adjusted
                                                     cost basis per share is now $50 ($5,500 ÷ 110). When the securities are sold,
                                                     the holding period is based upon the original purchase date; the date(s) of the
                                                     acquisition of the shares through the stock dividend(s) or stock split(s) are of no
                                                     consequence.



                   17. 2. 2 CAPITAL GAINS
                                         A capital gain occurs when capital assets (securities, real estate, and tangible property)
                                     are sold at prices that exceed the adjusted cost basis. Usually, computing the capital gain
                                     or loss on an asset is a matter of comparing the purchase price with the selling price less
                                     commissions.



                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                        A lower cost basis results in a larger capital gain. The gain is determined by
                                                     comparing the sales proceeds with the cost basis.




                               *
                              EXAMPLE                    If the investor’s cost basis in stock is $50 per share and shares are sold for
                                                     $60, the investor has a capital gain of $10. However, if the investor’s cost basis is
                                                     $55 and the shares are sold for $60, the investor’s capital gain is only $5.


                        17. 2. 2. 1 Effects of Reinvesting on Cost Basis for Computing Capital
                                    Gains/Losses
                                          A few pages ago, we discussed the fact that any distributions received, whether taken
                                     in cash or reinvested, were reported on the Form 1099 as taxable for that year. In the case
                                     of reinvestments, because they have already been taxed, when a sale takes place, they are
                                     not taxed again—the amount reinvested adds to the investor’s tax basis (or cost).




                               *
                              EXAMPLE                     An investor purchases 100 shares of XYZ common stock for $100 per share.
                                                     Total cost is $10,000. After enrolling in the DRIP offered by XYZ, the investor
                                                     receives dividends for three years in the total amount of $1,200. Let’s say that
                                                     these reinvested dividends have purchased 10 shares. The investor now sells
                                                     the all of the XYZ for $125 per share. For tax purposes, there is a capital gain of
                                                     $2,550. This is computed by subtracting the cost ($10,000 + $1,200 = $11,200)
                                                     from the proceeds (110 shares × $125 = $13,750).




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 525                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:03:27 PM
     526        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




             17. 2. 3 CAPITAL LOSSES
                                     A capital loss occurs when capital assets are sold at prices that are lower than the
                                 adjusted cost basis.


             17. 2. 4 NET CAPITAL GAINS AND LOSSES
                                     To calculate tax liability, a taxpayer must first add all short-term capital gains and
                                 losses for the year. (Short-term gains are investments held 12 months or less and are taxed
                                 at the investor’s ordinary income tax rate.) Then all long-term capital gains and losses
                                 are added. (A long-term capital gain or loss only occurs after the investor has held the
                                 investment at risk for a period exceeding one year.) Finally, the taxpayer offsets the totals
                                 to determine his net capital gain or loss for the year. If the result is a net long-term capital
                                 gain, it is taxed at the capital gains rate, currently at 15% for most taxpayers.
                                     Capital losses that exceed capital gains are deductible against earned income up to a
                                 maximum of $3,000 per year. Any capital losses not deducted in a taxable year may be car-
                                 ried forward indefinitely as a deduction to offset capital gains in future years.


             17. 2. 5 DETERMINING WHICH SHARES TO SELL
                                     An investor holding identical securities, each with a different acquisition date and
                                 cost basis, may determine which shares to sell by electing one of three accounting meth-
                                 ods: first in, first out (FIFO); share identification; or average cost basis. If the investor fails
                                 to choose, the IRS assumes the investor liquidates shares on a FIFO basis.
                                     When FIFO shares are sold, the cost of the shares held the longest is used to calculate
                                 the gain or loss. In a rising market, this method normally creates adverse tax consequences.
                                     When using the share identification accounting method, the investor keeps track
                                 of the cost of each share purchased and uses this information to liquidate the shares that
                                 would provide the lowest capital gain. Share identification is used to identify the specific
                                 per-share cost basis when shares are sold. The investor keeps track of the cost of each share
                                 purchased and specifies which shares to sell on the basis of his tax needs.
                                     A shareholder may elect to use an average cost basis when redeeming mutual fund
                                 shares (but not shares of specific stocks). The investor would calculate average basis by
                                 dividing the total cost of all shares owned by the total number of shares. The shareholder
                                 may not change the decision to use the average basis method without IRS permission.



                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                        Share identification may result in more advantageous tax treatment, but
                                                    most accountants prefer the convenience of the averaging method for mutual
                                                    fund shares. Share identification is most commonly used with stock sales.



             17. 2. 6 WASH SALE
                                     An investor may not use capital losses to offset gains or income if the taxpayer sells a
                                 security at a loss and purchases the same or a substantially identical security within 30 days




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 526                                                                                                             7/15/2016 2:03:27 PM
                                                                                                          Session 17   Tax Considerations      527




                                     before or after the trade date establishing the loss. The sale at a loss and the repurchase
                                     within this period is a wash sale. The loss that was disallowed, however, is added to the
                                     repurchased shares’ cost basis.




                               *
                              EXAMPLE                     An investor buys 100 shares for $50. One year later, the investor sells the
                                                     shares for $40. Fifteen days after the sale, he repurchases 100 shares of the same
                                                     stock for $42. His new cost basis is $52 because the $10 loss that was disallowed
                                                     is added to the repurchase price of $42.

                                                                               Wash Sale

                                                                                Trade Date
                                                           30 days before                         30 days after




                                              April 15                           May 15                                June 14



                                          Substantially identical securities include stock rights, call options, warrants, and con-
                                     vertible securities of the same issue.
                                          The IRS compares three qualities of debt securities in determining whether they are
                                     substantially identical: the maturity, coupon, and issuer. A bond is substantially identical
                                     if all three qualities of the bond sold at a loss and the newly purchased bond are the same.
                                          After selling a bond, an investor can buy another bond with either a different matu-
                                     rity, coupon, or issuer without violating the wash sale rule.




                               *
                              EXAMPLE                    An investor could sell an ABC 8% bond that matures in 2030 at a loss and
                                                     buy back an ABC 8% bond that matures in 2031 and claim the loss. This is com-
                                                     monly called tax-swapping.




                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                         The wash sale rule applies only to realized losses—not to realized gains.



                   17. 2. 7 DONATED (GIFTED) AND INHERITED SECURITIES
                                         Gifts. When a donor makes a gift of securities or virtually any asset, the cost basis to
                                     the recipient (the donee) is the donor’s cost basis. This describes carryover basis.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 527                                                                                                              7/15/2016 2:03:27 PM
     528        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                             *
                         EXAMPLE                         In 1995, Joe Smith bought 1,000 shares of COD at $24 per share, for a total
                                                    cost of $24,000. In 2002, when COD was trading at $32.50, Joe gave those
                                                    1,000 shares to his daughter, Sally. When Sally sells the shares, her cost basis is
                                                    Joe’s cost basis on the date of his original purchase—$24 per share, seven years
                                                    ago—not the market value on the date of the gift. So, if Sally were to sell those
                                                    shares for $33 per share one month after receiving the gift, she would be real-
                                                    izing a long-term capital gain of $9,000.




                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         It gets more complicated if the securities are worth less than the donor’s cost
                                                    at the time of the gift and we don’t expect the exam to deal with that situation.




                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         If a charitable gift of securities held for more than one year is made, the tax
                                                    treatment is more favorable. Under these circumstances, Joe’s deduction is based
                                                    on the fair market value on the date of the gift, not his cost basis. He would have
                                                    received a $32,500 tax deduction and avoided capital gains taxes on the $8,500
                                                    profit.

                                     Inherited Securities. When a person dies and leaves securities to heirs, the cost
                                 basis to the recipients is usually the fair market value on the date of the owner’s death.
                                 In other words, the cost basis steps up to the date of death value.




                             *
                         EXAMPLE                         In 1995, Joe Smith bought 1,000 shares of COD at $24 per share for a
                                                    total cost of $24,000. In 2003, when COD was trading at $32.50, Joe died. His
                                                    daughter, Sally, is Joe’s sole heir and inherits the 1,000 shares upon his death.
                                                    When Sally sells the shares, her cost basis is the fair market value on the date of
                                                    Joe’s death—$32.50 per share—not Joe’s original purchase cost.




                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                         The step up provision does not apply when inheriting an annuity.



             17. 2. 8 SALE OF A PRIMARY RESIDENCE
                                      There are special tax benefits available to those selling their primary residence as long
                                 as it has been lived in as the primary residence for at least two of the past five years. For
                                 a couple, the first $500,000 in profit is excluded from capital gains taxation; for a single
                                 person, it is the first $250,000.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 528                                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:03:27 PM
                                                                                                     Session 17   Tax Considerations      529




                             *
                             EXAMPLE                  Chloe and Edgar bought their home 30 years ago for $50,000. Now that the
                                                 children are all on their own, they decide to downsize and move to a retirement
                                                 village. If they sell their home for $600,000, what is the tax consequence?
                                                      Chloe and Edgar are selling their home for a profit of $550,000. However,
                                                 the first $500,000 for a couple is excluded from taxation. Therefore, they will
                                                 only have to report the remaining $50,000 as a long-term capital gain.




                   17. 3      BUSINESS TAXATION


                   17. 3. 1 SOLE PROPRIETORSHIPS
                                     Sole proprietorships are the simplest business form but offer no liability protection to
                                 the owner. In fact, this is the only form of business where the potential loss is unlimited
                                 because the personal assets of the owner are at risk in addition to any assets owned by the
                                 business. The owner computes the earnings of the business on the Schedule C of her Form
                                 1040 so anything made (or lost) by the business is reflected directly on her tax return.


                   17. 3. 2 PARTNERSHIPS
                                     Partnerships are relatively easy to form and dissolve and come in two types. Both offer
                                 flow-through of income and losses, the difference being in the degree of liability. General
                                 partnerships provide no liability protection to the partners. In other words, if the business
                                 goes under, they, collectively and separately, are liable for any losses. In a limited partner-
                                 ship, as the name implies, something is limited. In this case, it is the liability. A limited
                                 partner’s maximum loss is what has already been invested plus any funds committed for but
                                 not yet contributed. That is why so many DPPs are organized as LPs.
                                     Partnerships do not pay taxes. They file an information return, a Form 1065, and
                                 attach to that (and send a copy to each partner) a Schedule K-1 indicating the amount of
                                 income (or loss) to be inserted on the investor’s personal Form 1040.


                   17. 3. 3 LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY (LLC)
                                     The LLC is somewhat of a hybrid between the partnership and the corporation. The
                                 federal government does not recognize an LLC as a classification for federal tax purposes.
                                 An LLC business entity must file as a corporation, a partnership, or sole proprietorship.
                                 Generally, a one-member LLC will use the Schedule C, just as if it were a sole proprietor-
                                 ship. Those with two or more members invariably file as partnerships using the Form 1065
                                 to provide the IRS with the information and the Schedule K-1 for each member’s share
                                 of income or loss. If filing as a corporation, they generally file as an S corporation, but it
                                 is unlikely, for test purposes, that you will have to know anything about an LLC filing as
                                 a corporation.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 529                                                                                                         7/15/2016 2:03:27 PM
     530        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




             17. 3. 4 CORPORATIONS
                                      As with partnerships, we have two types here as well—the C corporation and the S
                                 corporation. Of all the business entities we’ve discussed, the only one that actually files a
                                 tax return on which it must pay income tax is the C corporation. It files on Form 1120 and
                                 pays taxes at a rate that generally does not exceed 35%, although there are brackets where
                                 it can be as high as 39% (and that will not be tested). The key fact about the C corpora-
                                 tion is that its dividends are paid out after paying income taxes and then that dividend is
                                 taxable to the shareholder, hence the term double taxation.
                                      The S corporation (sometime referred to by its ancient name, Subchapter S corpora-
                                 tion, on the exam), is treated for tax purposes the same as a partnership except that the
                                 return filed is the Form 1120S. Shareholders receive a Schedule K-1 indicating their share
                                 of income or loss. Just as with the LLC and the partnership, the business entity is not
                                 taxed; everything flows through to the owners.
                                      Corporations are major investors in securities. Some Internal Revenue Code (IRC)
                                 provisions affecting corporations as investors include the following.
                                 ■■ Dividend exclusion rule: Dividends paid from one corporation to another are 70%
                                      exempt from taxation. A corporation that receives dividends on stocks of other domes-
                                      tic (and certain qualifying foreign) corporations, therefore, pays taxes on only 30% of
                                      the dividends received. This avoids triple taxation to investors.
                                 ■■ Municipal securities: Like individual taxpayers, corporations do not pay federal taxes
                                      on interest received from municipal bonds.


             17. 3. 5 FILING DATES FOR BUSINESS TAX RETURNS

                   17. 3. 5. 1 Sole Proprietorship
                                     A business organized as a sole proprietorship is an extension of the individual running
                                 the business, so its year-end is December 31, and the tax return due date is the same as the
                                 individual’s—April 15 of the following year.


                   17. 3. 5. 2 Single Member LLC
                                     If the business is an LLC with only one member, it is taxed like a sole proprietorship,
                                 using Schedule C with a year-end of December 31. The tax returns are due and taxes pay-
                                 able on April 15 of the following year.


                   17. 3. 5. 3 Partnership and Multiple Member LLCs
                                      The tax filing requirements for a partnership and an LLC with more than one member
                                 are the same. An information return is filed on Form 1065, with a Schedule K-1 sent to the
                                 partners/members indicating the amount of income or loss attributable to each of them.
                                 Remember, the business entity pays no income tax—all income/loss flows through to the
                                 partners/members. Form 1065 is due on April 15 of the following year. The year-end for
                                 these businesses is typically December 31, and taxes are due on April 15, when the indi-
                                 vidual partners/members file their Form 1040s showing their share of the business’s income
                                 or loss that was reported on the Schedule K-1.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 530                                                                                                       7/15/2016 2:03:27 PM
                                                                                                            Session 17   Tax Considerations      531




                        17. 3. 5. 4 Corporations
                                          A regular (C) corporation may choose any convenient date as their year-end (usually
                                     a quarter end date). Corporation tax returns are due and taxes are payable on the 15th day
                                     of the third month after the end of the company’s fiscal (financial) year. So, a corporation
                                     with a year-end date of December 31 must file and pay taxes by March 15; a corporation
                                     with a year-end date of June 30 must file and pay taxes by September 15.
                                          In the case of an S corporation, income/loss is taxed on individual income tax returns.
                                     Therefore, an S corporation must usually take a calendar year-end date (December 31)
                                     unless the corporation can establish a reasonable business purpose for a different date. The
                                     filing date and tax return due date is the 15th day of the third month after the end of the
                                     company’s fiscal (financial) year. So, an S corporation with a year-end date of December 31
                                     must file its tax return by March 15. As with the other flow-through entities, the Schedule
                                     K-1 is sent to shareholders and is used in the preparation of their Form 1040 return.



                                  !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT                    You may be asked about tax documents for each of these different forms of
                                                     business organizations. Sole proprietors file their business information on a Sched-
                                                     ule C. Members of LLCs and shareholders in S corporations receive a Schedule
                                                     K-1 and C corporations report their income on a Form 1120.




                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                         On July 31, 2015, President Obama signed into law P.L. 114-41, the Surface
                                                     Transportation and Veterans Health Care Choice Improvement Act of 2015.
                                                         The act sets new due dates for partnership and C corporation returns.
                                                          For partnership returns (including LLCs with more than one member), the
                                                     new due date is March 15 (for calendar-year partnerships) and the 15th day of
                                                     the third month following the close of the fiscal year (for fiscal-year partnerships).
                                                     (Currently, these returns are due on April 15 for calendar-year partnerships.)
                                                          For C corporations, the new due date is the 15th day of the fourth month
                                                     following the close of the corporation’s year. (Currently, these returns are due on
                                                     the 15th day of the third month following the close of the corporation’s year.)
                                                     For a calendar year corporation, that would make the due date April 15th. Please
                                                     note there is no change to the filing due date for S corporations; it remains
                                                     unchanged at March 15th (for calendar year filers, or the 15th day of the third
                                                     month following the close of the fiscal year). This means that S corporations and
                                                     partnerships will now have the same due dates.
                                                         The new due dates will apply to returns for tax years beginning after Decem-
                                                     ber 31, 2015.
                                                          As is NASAA’s practice, questions on the examination will reflect rules in ef-
                                                     fect on the day of the exam. Beginning on January 1, 2016, all questions in our
                                                     test bank will reflect the new filing due date, and we will post a reminder to the
                                                     Exam Tips and Content Updates on your home page.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 531                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:03:27 PM
     532        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




             17. 4           TAXATION OF TRUSTS
                                    Trusts are considered legal persons and may be subject to taxation. In fact, if not
                                 handled properly, the taxes can be quite onerous.


             17. 4. 1 TRUST TAX RATES
                                     Taxation of trusts and estates is based on what is distributed and what is retained.
                                 In the case of non-distributed income, the tax consequences can be quite severe. For
                                 example, although a joint return filed for 2015 would have to report income in excess of
                                 $464,850 to be subject to the highest tax bracket of 39.6%, that rate is reached once a
                                 trust or estate has non-distributed income in excess of $12.300. Obviously, this can have a
                                 major impact on investment planning.



                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT                        If the trust or estate has income, it must be reported on IRS Form 1041.


                   17. 4. 1. 1 Distributable Net Income (DNI)
                                     Because of the onerous tax implications described above, most trusts and estates dis-
                                 tribute their income. In the context of a trust or an estate, the taxable income is known as
                                 distributable net income (DNI). DNI determines the amount of income that may be tax-
                                 able to beneficiaries (or the grantor in the case of a living trust), whereas the balance may
                                 be taxed to the trust as indicated above. Commissions and other fees charged for buying
                                 and selling securities held in a trust are subtracted from the trust’s DNI. Realized capital
                                 gains that are reinvested in the corpus (Latin for “body”) of the trust are not considered
                                 part of DNI.




                             *
                         EXAMPLE                        The Gordon Clark Trust had dividend income of $10,000 and interest income
                                                    of $7,000. In addition, the trust realized capital gains of $3,000, half of which
                                                    were reinvested in the corpus of the trust. Transaction costs for the year were
                                                    $2,000. The Gordon Clark Trust has DNI for the year of $16,500 ($10,000 +
                                                    $7,000 + $1,500 – $2,000). The $1,500 of realized gains reinvested is not part of
                                                    DNI.

                                      Tax-exempt interest from municipal bonds remains tax exempt to trust beneficiaries.
                                      Regardless of whether trust income is actually distributed to beneficiaries, each ben-
                                 eficiary is considered to be in receipt of taxable income, even if the beneficiary does not
                                 actually receive the income.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 532                                                                                                              7/15/2016 2:03:27 PM
                                                                                                    Session 17   Tax Considerations      533




                   17. 4. 2 BYPASS TRUST
                                    A bypass trust is an estate planning tool used to take advantage of the lifetime estate
                                tax exclusion. It is commonly used between spouses when both are U.S. citizens. Even
                                though the amount one spouse may leave another without incurring estate tax is unlim-
                                ited, upon the death of the survivor, all that remains is that person’s lifetime exclusion,
                                currently $5.45 million and indexed for inflation.
                                    Prior to the passage of the American Tax Relief Act of 2012 (ATRA), unless proper
                                estate planning was done, such as creating a bypass trust, it was possible to lose the benefit
                                of the full estate tax exemption of the first spouse to die. However, starting in 2013, other
                                than in unusual circumstances, the necessity for using a bypass trust has been eliminated.
                                ATRA allows the surviving spouse to utilize the first spouse’s unused estate tax exemption
                                amount without the need to use a bypass trust. What ATRA did was make permanent the
                                “portability” provisions first set out in the Tax Relief Act (TRA 2010).


                        17. 4. 2. 1 Portability of Unused Estate Tax Exemption Under ATRA
                                     As previously mentioned, TRA 2010 contained the concept of portability, which per-
                                mits the surviving spouse to take the unused portion of the first deceased spouse’s federal
                                exemption and aggregate it with the surviving spouse’s unused portion. Now, with ATRA
                                2012, that feature has become permanent.
                                     To use an example, for 2016, each living spouse has a lifetime exemption from estate
                                tax of $5.45 million. The husband dies in 2016, leaving his entire estate of $7 million to
                                his wife. There would be no estate tax because of the unlimited marital deduction. Let’s
                                assume that the husband has not used any of his $5.45 million exemption by making tax-
                                able gifts in previous years. If the wife dies later with an estate of up to $10.90 million, the
                                executor of her estate can use all of her exemption of $5.45 million as well as the husband’s
                                unused portion (up to $5.45 million) needed to reduce the federal estate tax to zero.
                                     The problem is that we don’t know how NASAA will treat this. When this was part
                                of TRA 2010, it was only expected to be effective for 2011 and 2012, and normally the
                                regulators do not write questions dealing with a temporary rule. However, now that this
                                has become a permanent part of estate tax law, we expect questions will start to appear,
                                first as inclusions in the 10 pretest questions, and, once properly vetted, into the actual
                                test bank itself. Check the Exam-tips and Content Updates for any further information.


                   17. 4. 3 GENERATION SKIPPING TRUST (GST)
                                     Just as the name implies, a generation skipping trust is used to pass money from fam-
                                ily members to other members more than one generation removed (grandchildren and/or
                                great-grandchildren). Therefore, instead of the assets being taxed upon the death of the
                                parents and then again when their children pass them to the grandchildren, one level of
                                estate taxation is eliminated.
                                     Similar to the Bypass trust (a term sometimes also used here as well) because the uni-
                                fied credit may be used, sheltering in 2016 up to $5.45 million, it enables couples with this
                                kind of wealth to leave up to $10.90 million without any estate tax liability. One enormous
                                benefit of the GST is when the trust is funded with appreciating assets. For example, the
                                grantor works for a start-up company involved in new technology and, because of the pat-
                                ents he turns over to them, he receives 10 million shares of untraded stock that is valued




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 533                                                                                                        7/15/2016 2:03:27 PM
     534        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                 at 50 cents per share ($5 million). All of that stock is placed into the trust and, because
                                 the value does not exceed the $5.45 million limit for 2016, there is no estate tax. Several
                                 years later, after the grantor’s death, the company goes public at $2.00 per share, and the
                                 stock is worth $20 million. The grandkids get to enjoy all of that without any estate tax.
                                 The portability concept mentioned previously with estate taxation under TRA 2010 and
                                 ATRA 2012 does not apply to the unused GST tax exemption of a predeceased spouse.


                   17. 4. 3. 1 Direct Skip
                                     When the assets, either directly, through an estate, or through a trust, are left to a
                                 beneficiary at least two generations below the transferor, it is known as a direct skip—the
                                 assets are directly skipping a generation. With a direct skip, where the estate is left directly
                                 to the grandchildren or other younger recipients, the donor or the donor’s estate via the
                                 executor pays the generation-skipping transfer tax (GSTT).


                   17. 4. 3. 2 Taxable Termination
                                      Taxable termination applies when a trust is terminated and pays out the remainder of
                                 its funds. Under taxable termination, the trustee is responsible for paying the GSTT. A
                                 taxable termination is a distribution of principal and, if applicable, accumulated income
                                 to a trust beneficiary who is a skip person. The most common case of this is when the skip
                                 person is the contingent beneficiary for someone in the generation above who has now
                                 passed away, typically, that person’s parent.


                   17. 4. 3. 3 Taxable Distribution
                                     Taxable distribution means any distribution from a trust to a skip person (other than a
                                 taxable termination or a direct skip). With a taxable distribution, the recipient is required
                                 to pay the GSTT.



             17. 5           ESTATE TAXES
                                     The federal government imposes a tax on a decedent’s estate based on the value of the
                                 estate, as well as on gifts conveyed to heirs, before a person dies.


             17. 5. 1 ESTATE TAX
                                     Estate tax is imposed on the transfer of substantial amounts of property at death. An
                                 individual may transfer an unlimited amount to a spouse who is a U.S. citizen without
                                 the imposition of federal estate tax. This is known as the marital deduction. In addition,
                                 an individual may transfer unlimited amounts of money and other property to an eligible
                                 charity with no federal estate tax. For heirs other than spouses, an estate tax credit will
                                 offset estate tax on transfers of up to $5.45 million in 2016, indexed for inflation of prop-
                                 erty. We have discussed some ways to reduce or eliminate estate taxes earlier in this unit.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 534                                                                                                          7/15/2016 2:03:27 PM
                                                                                                       Session 17   Tax Considerations      535




                        17. 5. 1. 1 The Gross Estate vs. the Taxable Estate
                                     Federal estate tax is calculated using a formula that begins with the gross estate. The
                                 gross estate includes all interests in property held by an individual at the time of death.
                                 Although amounts of property transferred to a spouse or a charity will generally not be
                                 subject to federal estate tax, such amounts are includable in calculating the gross estate.
                                     Certain expenses are then deducted from the gross estate to arrive at the adjusted
                                 gross estate (AGE). Examples of deductions for the AGE include funeral expenses, chari-
                                 table contributions, and debts of the decedent.
                                     Once the amount of the AGE is determined, the unlimited marital and charitable
                                 deductions are subtracted to arrive at the taxable estate.




                             *
                             EXAMPLE                  Caroline, who is unmarried, dies in 2016, owning various property. The
                                                 amount of her gross estate is $7 million. However, her estate incurred $20,000
                                                 in funeral expenses, she had made charitable gifts of $1,000,000, and she owed
                                                 mortgages of $200,000 and $30,000 in credit card balances. Thus, her AGE is
                                                 $5,750,000. In 2016, because of an estate tax credit that exempts the first $5.45
                                                 million property transferred after death, Caroline’s estate will be taxed on the
                                                 remaining $300,000 in transferred property.


                        17. 5. 1. 2 Alternative Valuation Date
                                     The Internal Revenue Code provides that the executor of an estate may choose to
                                 value the assets in the estate as of date of death or, alternatively, six months later. This
                                 is particularly beneficial if the estate consists of assets that have dropped substantially in
                                 value following the date of death of the deceased. What value is used if an asset that is
                                 appraised at the date of death is subsequently sold for a different price? The executor will
                                 use that sale price as long as it represents the fair market value.
                                     Fair Market Value is defined as: “The fair market value is the price at which the prop-
                                 erty would change hands between a willing buyer and a willing seller, neither being under
                                 any compulsion to buy or to sell and both having reasonable knowledge of relevant facts.
                                 The fair market value of a particular item of property includible in the decedent’s gross
                                 estate is not to be determined by a forced sale price. Nor is the fair market value of an item
                                 of property to be determined by the sale price of the item in a market other than that in
                                 which such item is most commonly sold to the public, taking into account the location
                                 of the item wherever appropriate.” In the case of mutual funds, FMV is the NAV, not the
                                 POP.



                               !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                      If an asset is sold after death at a greatly reduced price from its appraised
                                                 value in a transaction that does not meet the definition required under fair mar-
                                                 ket value, the IRS will use the higher value.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 535                                                                                                           7/15/2016 2:03:27 PM
     536        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                   17. 5. 1. 3 Payment Date of Estate Taxes
                                     Regardless of whether the date of death or alternative valuation date is used, estate
                                 taxes are due no later than nine months after death. Just as with personal income taxes, it
                                 is possible to get an extension to file the return, but the taxes are due at the nine months’
                                 time and interest will be charged on any amount owed that is not paid at that time.



                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                        The computation of the estate tax is done on IRS Form 706. From the gross
                                                    assets, certain expenses (such as the costs of administration of the estate, funeral
                                                    expenses, payments of outstanding debts, and charitable bequests) are deducted
                                                    and the tax is levied on the remaining taxable estate.



             17. 5. 2 TAXATION OF ESTATE INCOME
                                     During the period of time before the estate is liquidated (and estates that are contested
                                 can drag on for years), it is likely that the executor will manage the assets in such a fashion
                                 that the estate receives income and possibly capital gains. If this is the case, the taxation to
                                 the estate is at the same rates mentioned earlier regarding trusts and, as with trusts, Form
                                 1041 is used to report the income. Furthermore, the income is taxed at the same rates as
                                 trust income (39.6% for everything in excess of $12,300).



                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                        Just as you may have to know that the estate tax computation is done on
                                                    Form 706, you may also have to know that the estate income tax computation is
                                                    done on Form 1041.




             17. 6           TAXATION OF GIFTS
                                      Gift tax is a federal tax imposed on the transfer of property during the lifetime of the
                                 donor; up to $5.45 million (2016) in lifetime gifts may be made without incurring gift
                                 tax. Additionally, an individual may give up to $14,000 per year (indexed for inflation in
                                 $1,000 increments) to any number of individuals without generating the federal gift tax.
                                 If a married couple join in the gift, the allowable amount is doubled to $28,000 per person
                                 per year. Gifts of securities are valued as of the current market price on the date of the gift.
                                 Please don’t confuse this with cost basis of a gift discussed earlier in this session.
                                      When a gift is made between spouses, the rule is somewhat different. Generally, there
                                 is an unlimited exclusion for these gifts. However, there are limits if your spouse is not a
                                 citizen of the United States. In 2016, a spouse may gift up to $148,000 to a noncitizen
                                 spouse. The number won’t be tested because it changes each year, but the concept might
                                 be on your exam.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 536                                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:03:28 PM
                                                                                                                Session 17   Tax Considerations      537




                                  !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                          Generally, a gift tax return must be filed whenever a gift in excess of
                                                     $14,000 (or whatever the annual exclusion is at the time of the gift) is made to
                                                     any individual (other than a spouse). The return is filed on Form 709 and is due at
                                                     the same time as the donor’s income tax return, generally April 15.




                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                          If a gift tax is due, it is the responsibility of the giver of the gift (donor), not
                                                     the receiver of the gift (donee).




                                  !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                           This concept is pretty simple: you have some stock worth $22,000 and give
                                                     it to a child or grandchild; you’ve exceed the $14,000 annual gift exclusion,
                                                     so a gift tax return would have to be filed. However, it might look like this on
                                                     your exam: “A grandfather received stock as a result of demutualization that is
                                                     currently worth $22,000 and wishes to give it to his grandchild.” Most students
                                                     would waste their time trying to figure out what demutualization means and not
                                                     realize how simple the question really is. It makes no difference how the stock
                                                     was acquired, for gift tax purposes, the only thing that counts is the fair market
                                                     value on the date of the gift.




                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                          Taxation of estates and gifts are very similar. Both have a lifetime exclusion
                                                     (2016) of $5,450,000 and both have a maximum tax rate (2016) of 40%. There
                                                     are two significant differences:
                                                         1. the annual gift tax exclusion ($14,000 in 2015), and
                                                         2. gift taxes are due at the same time as the individual tax return (April 15)
                                                     while estate taxes are due nine months after death.




                   17. 7         TAXATION OF FOREIGN SECURITIES
                                          Dividend and interest income received from foreign securities, including ADRs, is
                                     normally subject to withholding tax, typically about 15%, by the issuer’s country of domi-
                                     cile. Current U.S. tax law allows many investors to reclaim the withheld tax as a credit
                                     against taxes owed on their tax returns. For example, if you purchased some Matilda (also
                                     called kangaroo) bonds (remember them from Session 5), they are issued in the Australian
                                     marketplace by non-Australian entities. The Australian government requires that a with-
                                     holding tax be placed on the interest, but U.S. taxpayers can take that tax withheld as a
                                     credit against U.S. income tax due on the interest. In almost all cases, income from foreign
                                     securities is taxed in the U.S. at all levels (federal and state).




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 537                                                                                                                    7/15/2016 2:03:28 PM
     538        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




             17. 8           GIVING TAX OR LEGAL ADVICE
                                     The topic of taxation and estate planning is extremely complicated and is best left to
                                 professionals. Although you may discuss these matters in a general way, any detailed rec-
                                 ommendation should be referred to the client’s tax and/or legal adviser.




                             Q
                 QUICK QUIZ 17.B                    True or False?

                                                    ____        1.	Straight line depreciation is considered a tax preference item for the
                                                                    AMT computation.

                                                    ____        2.	Dividend income from stock ownership is considered passive income
                                                                    by the IRS.

                                                    ____        3.	If an investor does not choose an acceptable basis when shares are
                                                                    sold, the IRS will assign LIFO.

                                                    ____        4.	Investors are not subject to capital gains tax when they receive stock
                                                                    dividends. Instead, the cost basis of shares is adjusted downward.

                                                    ____        5.	If an investor sells stock at a loss and within 20 days purchases a call
                                                                    option on that stock, the investor’s loss on the stock is disallowed.

                                                    ____        6.	The cost basis of inherited securities is the original purchase price of
                                                                    the securities.

                                                    ____        7.	Although interest income on municipal bonds is exempt from federal
                                                                    taxation to individual investors, corporate investors are taxed.

                                                    ____        8.	A corporation is required to pay taxes on 70% of its dividend
                                                                    income.

                                                    ____        9. The limit on the marital deduction is currently $5.45 million.

                                                    10. Which of the following are possible sources of taxable income to an
                                                        individual?
                                                           I.   Owning a sole proprietorship
                                                          II.   Being a shareholder in a subchapter S corporation
                                                         III.   Owning stocks and bonds
                                                         IV.    Proceeds paid on a life insurance policy
                                                         A.     I and II
                                                         B.     I, II and III
                                                         C.     I, II, III and IV
                                                         D.     II and III




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 538                                                                                                                     7/15/2016 2:03:28 PM
                                                                                    Session 17   Tax Considerations      539




                             11. Most new businesses operate at a loss for a period of time. If several of
                                 your clients were forming a group to fund a start-up enterprise but wished
                                 to limit their liability and, at the same time, be able to receive favorable tax
                                 treatment for the expected losses, you would suggest forming which of the
                                 following?
                                 A.   C corporation
                                 B.   General partnership
                                 C.   LLC
                                 D.   Sole proprietorship




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 539                                                                                        7/15/2016 2:03:28 PM
       540         Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




             Q U I C K               Q U I Z           A N S W E R S

        Quick Quiz 17.A                                                      4. T.    The same is true with a stock split.

           1. B.       The key to this question is that dividends            5. T.    The investor has run afoul of the wash
                       paid on stock issued by American companies                     sale rule because a call option on a stock is
                       (and certain qualified foreign corporations)                   considered substantially identical to the stock.
                       generally qualify for a reduced tax rate
                       (maximum 15 to 20%). No such benefit                  6. F.    The cost basis of inherited securities is the
                       accrues to money market funds (their                           market value of the securities on the date of
                       dividends are generated from interest                          the owner’s death.
                       income) and government bond interest is
                                                                             7. F.    Interest income from municipal bonds
                       always taxed as ordinary income (although
                                                                                      is exempt from taxation when paid to
                       state income tax free). The dividends on a
                                                                                      corporations or individuals.
                       growth stock would also qualify, but, since
                       the question deals with increasing current            8. F.    A corporation is taxed on 30% of its
                       income, public utility is a more sensible                      dividend income; 70% is excluded.
                       approach. This is an example of how the test
                       might present you with two answer choices             9. F.    Marital deduction on transfer of property
                       that could be correct, and you must choose                     between spouses is unlimited.
                       the one that is more correct.
                                                                             10. B.   An individual can generate income from
           2. D.       In general, for the same amount of income,                     running a sole proprietorship or being
                       filing single will result in the highest income                a shareholder in an S corporation (the
                       tax while married filing jointly, the lowest.                  exam will probably use the obsolete term,
                       Head of household is usually the best for                      Subchapter S). Of course, taxable income
                       those who are not married, but do have                         can be generated by investments in the form
                       children.                                                      of dividends, interest, and capital gains.
                                                                                      Death benefits paid to the beneficiary of a life
        Quick Quiz 17.B                                                               insurance policy are not subject to income
                                                                                      tax.
           1. F.       Only accelerated depreciation is a tax
                       preference item for computing AMT.                    11. C.   The only way to limit liability is through
                                                                                      a corporation (C or S), LLC, or limited
           2. F.       Dividend income is considered portfolio, or                    partnership. The LLC allows for the
                       investment, income. Passive income results                     flow-through of operating losses to the
                       from limited partnerships and real estate.                     shareholders while the C corporation does
           3. F.       The IRS assigns FIFO when an acceptable                        not.
                       basis has not been selected. FIFO generally
                       results in the largest capital gain.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 540                                                                                                               7/15/2016 2:03:28 PM
                             18
                             Trading Securities


                             B
                                     y this time in the course, you’re probably itching to go out and try
                                     some of these great strategies and techniques and get active in the
                                     market. In this session, we’ll cover the first thing you have to do—de-
                             cide what type of account you’re going to open. Then, we’ll discuss where
                             the securities you wish to purchase or sell are traded. It isn’t like you can
                             visit your local Walmart and pick up a few hundred shares of stock. Nor can
                             you go online to Amazon and, even if you have Prime®, order some bonds
                             and have them delivered in two business days.
                                  The Series 66 exam will include approximately 2 questions on the mate-
                             rial presented in this session. ■




                                                                                                           541




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 541                                                                           7/15/2016 2:03:28 PM
            OBJECTIVES


                                 When you have completed this session, you should be able to:

                             ■■ summarize the features of cash and margin accounts;

                             ■■ compute the equity in a margin account;

                             ■■ compare and contrast the exchanges and the over-the-counter market;

                             ■■ explain the difference between functioning as a broker and acting as a dealer;

                             ■■ identify the features and uses of market, stop, and limit orders; and

                             ■■ state the mechanics and risks of a short sale.




      542




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 542                                                                                       7/15/2016 2:03:28 PM
                                                                                                   Session 18   Trading Securities      543




                   18. 1     CASH AND MARGIN ACCOUNTS
                                    Customers can open either cash accounts or margin accounts, depending on how they
                                choose to pay for securities. In cash accounts, customers pay the full purchase price of
                                securities by the transaction settlement date, whereas in margin accounts, customers may
                                borrow part of a security’s purchase price from the broker-dealer.


                   18. 1. 1 CASH ACCOUNTS
                                    A cash account is the basic investment account, and anyone eligible to open an
                                investment account can open one. In a cash account, a customer must pay in full for any
                                securities purchased. Certain accounts may only be opened as cash accounts, including:
                                ■■ personal retirement accounts, such as IRAs, Keoghs, and TSAs;
                                ■■ corporate retirement accounts; and
                                ■■ custodial accounts, such as Uniform Transfer to Minors Act accounts (UTMAs).


                   18. 1. 2 MARGIN ACCOUNTS
                                     Margin accounts allow customers to control investments for less money than they
                                would need if they were to buy the securities outright because a margin account allows a
                                customer to borrow money for investing. The term margin refers to the minimum amount
                                of cash or marginable securities a customer must deposit to buy securities.
                                     Margin also is a potential source of cash. If a customer has fully paid securities in an
                                account and needs cash, a broker-dealer is permitted to lend money against those securi-
                                ties up to the margin limit that the Federal Reserve Board (FRB) has set.
                                     Customers who open margin accounts must meet certain minimal suitability require-
                                ments. The customer may then buy securities on margin and pay interest on the borrowed
                                funds. The securities purchased are held in street name as collateral for the margin loan.
                                     When buying on margin, investors are using financial leverage. That is, they are
                                increasing the potential for gain (and for loss as well) by using borrowed funds. Leveraging
                                can be beneficial when the security is moving up, but it can result in a loss greater than the
                                original investment if the security goes against the investor.


                        18. 1. 2. 1 Documenting a Margin Account
                                      Opening a margin account requires more documentation than opening a regular cash
                                account. The customer signs a margin agreement, which includes the required credit agree-
                                ment, hypothecation agreement, and an optional loan consent. Under NASAA policies,
                                it is an unethical business practice to execute any transaction in a margin account without
                                securing from the customer a properly executed written margin agreement promptly after
                                the initial transaction in the account.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 543                                                                                                       7/15/2016 2:03:29 PM
     544        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                                                          Margin Account Agreements

                                       Credit Agreement              Discloses the terms under which credit is extended. SEC Rule
                                                                     10b-16 requires firms to disclose the method of computing
                                                                     interest and the conditions under which interest rates and
                                                                     charges will be changed. Firms must send customers an
                                                                     assurance that statements accounting for interest charges
                                                                     will be sent with the same frequency that interest is charged
                                                                     (monthly or quarterly).

                                       Hypothecation Agree-          Gives the firm permission to pledge (hypothecate) securities
                                       ment                          held on margin; a mandatory part of a margin agreement.

                                       Loan Consent (optional)       Gives the firm permission to lend securities held in the
                                                                     margin account to other brokers, usually for short sales. It
                                                                     is not mandatory for customers to sign the loan consent
                                                                     agreement.




                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                          Although NASAA does not have one, FINRA rules (which most states view as
                                                    practices to be followed by broker-dealers under their jurisdiction), do have a risk
                                                    disclosure require­ment for margin accounts. As part of opening a margin account,
                                                    the broker-dealer must pro­vide customers with a risk disclosure document. Unlike
                                                    the “promptly after the initial trade” requirement that NASAA has for its required
                                                    documentation, FINRA requires this document to be delivered at or before the
                                                    initial margin trade. This information must also be provided to margin custom-
                                                    ers on an annual basis. The document discusses the risks associated with margin
                                                    trading, some of which are listed below.
                                                         ■■ You can lose more funds than you deposit in the margin account.

                                                         ■■ The firm can force the sale of securities or other assets in your account(s)
                                                            and do so with­out contacting you.

                                                         ■■ You are not entitled to choose which securities can be sold if a call for
                                                            additional funds is not met.

                                                         ■■ You are not entitled to an extension of time to meet a margin call.

                                                         ■■ The firm can increase its house maintenance margin requirements at any
                                                            time and is not required to provide you advance written notice.


                   18. 1. 2. 2 Margin Call
                                      The term margin call is properly defined as the initial call for funds when making a
                                 margin transaction. For example, with the margin requirements of Regulation T at 50%
                                 (as they have been since 1974), a purchase of $12,000 of stock will result in a margin call
                                 of $6,000. The broker-dealer lends the client the other $6,000 creating a debit balance
                                 in the account. The equity in the account is 50%, and the client’s debt is the other 50%.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 544                                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:03:29 PM
                                                                                                           Session 18   Trading Securities      545




                        18. 1. 2. 3 Maintenance
                                         The Self-Regulatory Organizations (SROs) (e.g., FINRA and the NYSE), rather than
                                     Regulation T, have established minimum levels of equity in a margin account below which
                                     a call will go out for additional funds. This is properly referred to as margin maintenance or
                                     a maintenance call. Current SRO levels are 25% for long margin accounts. For example, if,
                                     in the above purchase, the stock’s price were to drop to $8,000, there would only be $2,000
                                     of equity in the account (market value of $8,000 minus debit balance of $6,000 equals
                                     $2,000). At this point, the equity represents 25% of the current market value ($2,000 /
                                     $8,000). If the stock should drop any further, a maintenance margin call would be sent
                                     with a request for immediate funds. You will not have to do any of these computations, but
                                     you will need to know the term. If the maintenance call is not met, the broker-dealer will
                                     liquidate enough securities in the account to bring the equity back to the maintenance
                                     level. If there is more than one security in the account, the firm can select which to sell—
                                     it does not have to be one whose decline triggered the call.


                        18. 1. 2. 4 House Maintenance
                                         This is the term used to describe stricter limits imposed by the broker-dealers them-
                                     selves. Typically, instead of relying on the SRO maintenance level of 25%, the individual
                                     firm may require a minimum of 35% or even higher.



                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                         This should help you remember the three terms we’ve just discussed:
                                                          Margin Call – Set by the Federal Reserve Board under Regulation T. This is
                                                     the initial deposit required when purchase securities on margin (the broker-dealer
                                                     lends the balance of the purchase price). For most equity securities, the initial
                                                     margin requirement is 50% of the purchase price.
                                                          Minimum Maintenance – Set by the SROs. This is the minimum equity that
                                                     must be maintained in a margin account. Should the equity fall below the mini-
                                                     mum required, a maintenance call (sometimes called maintenance margin) will
                                                     go out demanding an immediate deposit of enough equity to bring the account
                                                     above the required level. Currently, the minimum maintenance level for long
                                                     positions is 25%.
                                                         House Maintenance – Set by the individual broker-dealer firm. As a cushion,
                                                     and to reduce the possible sellout caused by failure to meet a maintenance call,
                                                     most firms set a minimum equity level above the SRO minimum. A common
                                                     house requirement is 35%.
                                                         None of these numbers will be tested, only the concepts.


                        18. 1. 2. 5 Mixed Margin Account
                                         A couple of pages ago, we described the short sale. Short sales must take place in a
                                     margin account. When the margin account contains both long and short positions, it is
                                     said to be a mixed margin account. Computing the equity, sometimes called net equity, in




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 545                                                                                                               7/15/2016 2:03:29 PM
     546        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                 one of these accounts is done by calculating the equity for both the longs and shorts and
                                 then combining them.
                                     In a long account, the equity is what you own, minus what you owe. That would be the
                                 current market value of the long stock minus the debit balance. In the case of the short
                                 position, it is basically the same, except the terms are different. What you owe in a short
                                 position is the cost to buy back the stock you’ve borrowed. What you own is the credit
                                 balance representing what you received when you sold the stock in the first place. So, the
                                 equity in a short account is the credit balance minus the current market value of the short
                                 stock. Perhaps the following will make it a bit easier:

                                      CMV long – Debit balance = Long equity

                                      Credit balance – CMV short = Short equity

                                     We have two positive numbers: the stock we own, and the credit balance (you know
                                 that when you get a bill and there is a credit balance, it means they owe you money—that’s
                                 yours). On the other side, we have two negative numbers: the cost to buy back the stock
                                 we’re short and the debit balance. If we add the two positives and then subtract the two
                                 negatives, we’ve got our net equity.




                             *
                         EXAMPLE                         A client’s mixed margin account shows the following. Current market value
                                                    of the long positions is $50,000, while the current market value of the short
                                                    positions is $25,000. There is a debit balance of $20,000 and a credit balance of
                                                    $40,000. What is the combined, or net equity in the account?
                                                         Either find the equity in each account, Long: $50,000 – $20,000 = $30,000
                                                    and short: $40,000 – $25,000 = $15,000, so the total is $45,000. Or, take the
                                                    two positive numbers, $50,000 + $40,000, which equal $90,000 and subtract to
                                                    the two negative numbers, $20,000 + $25,000, which equal $45,000 and you
                                                    get the same $45,000.


                   18. 1. 2. 6 Positive (Negative) Margin
                                     The term positive margin simply means that your returns are higher than the cost of the
                                 borrowed money to carry the positions in a margin account.
                                     For example, if you buy $10,000 of stock on 50% margin, you will be borrowing $5,000
                                 of that purchase price from the broker-dealer. If, over the holding period, you pay $400 in
                                 interest and sell the stock for $11,000, you’ve made a profit of $1,000 against the cost of
                                 $400 for net “winnings” of $600. That would be considered positive margin.
                                     If, however, you sold the stock for $10,300, your interest cost would have exceeded the
                                 profit by $100, and that would be considered negative margin.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 546                                                                                                              7/15/2016 2:03:29 PM
                                                                                                       Session 18   Trading Securities      547




                             Q
                       QUICK QUIZ 18.A          1.   If a customer opens a margin account with ABC Discount Securities and
                                                     signs a loan consent agreement, the firm is permitted to
                                                     A.   hypothecate securities in the customer’s account
                                                     B.   loan out the customer’s margin securities
                                                     C.   commingle the customer’s securities with securities owned by the firm
                                                     D.   lend the customer money and charge interest

                                                2.   An investment adviser representative is reviewing the investments of a
                                                     potential advisory client. The representative notices that the investor has
                                                     a mixed margin account at a large, well-known broker-dealer. It would be
                                                     expected that this account would contain
                                                     A.   stocks and bonds
                                                     B.   stocks and options
                                                     C.   long and short positions
                                                     D.   cash and securities

                                                3.   A client has a margin account with a broker-dealer. When making a pur-
                                                     chase, the request for funds is known as a
                                                     A.   house call
                                                     B.   maintenance margin call
                                                     C.   margin call
                                                     D.   call rate

                                                Quick Quiz answers can be found at the end of the session.




                   18. 2     MARKETS AND MARKET PARTICIPANTS

                                    After the initial offering, many stocks and bonds are bought and sold on exchanges in
                                a two-way auction process. The major exchanges include the New York Stock Exchange
                                (NYSE), the Chicago Stock Exchange (CHX), and Nasdaq. Other trades take place in
                                the nationwide network of broker-dealers known as the over-the-counter (OTC) market.


                   18. 2. 1 SECURITIES MARKETS
                                    There are two terms used to describe the market for securities. The primary market is
                                the market in which the proceeds of sales go to the issuer of the securities sold. The sec-
                                ondary market is where previously issued securities are bought and sold. This session will
                                focus on secondary market trading.


                        18. 2. 1. 1 Exchange Market
                                     The exchange market is composed of the NYSE and other exchanges on which
                                listed securities are traded. Listed security refers to any security listed for trading on an




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 547                                                                                                           7/15/2016 2:03:29 PM
     548        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                 exchange. Each stock exchange requires corporations to meet certain criteria before it will
                                 allow their stock to be listed for trading on the exchange.

                                     Location. Most stock exchanges, such as the NYSE and CHX, maintain central
                                 marketplaces and trading floors. Some, such as the Nasdaq Stock Market are strictly
                                 electronic markets. As of the date of this printing, there are 18 exchanges registered as
                                 national stock exchanges with the SEC. At one time, there were a number of regional
                                 stock exchanges, but they have either been closed or merged into the national ones.

                                     Pricing System. Historically, listed markets operated as auction markets. Floor bro-
                                 kers competed to execute trades at the most favorable prices. That process still exists on
                                 some exchanges

                                      Specialist. The specialist maintains an orderly market and provides price continu-
                                 ity. He fills limit and market orders for the public and trades for his own account to
                                 either stabilize or facilitate trading when imbalances in supply and demand occur.
                                      The specialist’s chief function is to maintain a fair and orderly market in the stocks for
                                 which he is responsible. An additional function is to minimize price disparities that may
                                 occur at the opening of daily trading. He does this by buying or selling, as a dealer, stock
                                 from his own inventory only when a need for such intervention exists. Otherwise, the
                                 specialist lets public supply and demand set the stock’s price.



                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                       The term specialist has been replaced with designated market maker
                                                    (DMM), but you should expect to still see specialist on your exam.


                   18. 2. 1. 2 Over-the-Counter (OTC) Market.
                                     The OTC market functions as an interdealer market in which unlisted securities—
                                 that is, securities not listed on any exchange—trade.
                                     In the OTC market, securities dealers across the country are connected by computer
                                 and telephone. Thousands of securities are traded OTC, including stocks, corporate bonds,
                                 and all municipal and U.S. government securities.

                                     Location. No central marketplace facilitates OTC trading. Trading takes place over
                                 the phone, over computer networks, and in trading rooms across the country.

                                    Pricing System. The OTC market is an interdealer network. Registered market
                                 makers compete to post the best bid and ask prices. The OTC market is a negotiated
                                 market.

                                      Market Makers. Market makers are broker-dealers who stand ready to buy and sell
                                 at least the minimum trading unit, usually 100 shares (or any larger amount they have
                                 indicated), in each stock in which they have published bid and ask quotes. Market mak-
                                 ers, acting in a dealer (principal) capacity, sell from their inventory at their asking price
                                 and buy for their inventory at the bid price.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 548                                                                                                         7/15/2016 2:03:29 PM
                                                                                                             Session 18   Trading Securities      549




                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                          The differences between the OTC and NYSE markets are summarized below.

                                                               OTC                                        NYSE
                                              Securities prices determined through      Securities prices determined through
                                              negotiation                               auction bidding
                                              Regulated by FINRA                        Regulated by the NYSE
                                              Traded at many locations across the       Traded on the NYSE floor on Wall
                                              country                                   Street

                                                          Exchange = Listed securities = prices determined by auction
                                                          OTC = Unlisted securities = prices determined by negotiation
                                                          Government and municipal bonds and unlisted corporate stocks and bonds
                                                      trade in the OTC market.



                   18. 2. 2 THE ROLE OF BROKER-DEALERS
                                         Most securities firms act as both brokers and dealers but never in the same transaction.
                                     Let’s examine the differences between these two terms.


                        18. 2. 2. 1 Brokers
                                         When a broker-dealer acts in the capacity of a broker, it is said to be acting in an
                                     agency capacity. That is, the firm represents clients who wish to buy a security by finding
                                     a seller, or finding a buyer for those clients with a security to sell. For this service, they
                                     charge a commission.
                                         Brokers do not buy shares for inventory but facilitate trades between buyers and sellers.



                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                            Although NASAA does not have one, FINRA rules (which most states view as
                                                      practices to be followed by broker-dealers under their jurisdiction), do have a risk
                                                      disclosure require­ment for margin accounts. As part of opening a margin account,
                                                      the broker-dealer must pro­vide customers with a risk disclosure document. Unlike
                                                      the “promptly after the initial trade” requirement that NASAA has for its required
                                                      documentation, FINRA requires this document to be delivered at or before the
                                                      initial margin trade. This information must also be provided to margin custom-
                                                      ers on an annual basis. The document discusses the risks associated with margin
                                                      trading, some of which are listed below.
                                                          ■■ You can lose more funds than you deposit in the margin account.

                                                          ■■ The firm can force the sale of securities or other assets in your account(s)
                                                             and do so with­out contacting you.

                                                          ■■ You are not entitled to choose which securities can be sold if a call for
                                                             additional funds is not met.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 549                                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:03:29 PM
     550        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                                         ■■ You are not entitled to an extension of time to meet a margin call.

                                                         ■■ The firm can increase its house maintenance margin requirements at any
                                                            time and is not required to provide you advance written notice.


                   18. 2. 2. 2 Dealers
                                      When a broker-dealer acts in the capacity of a dealer, it is said to be acting as a princi-
                                 pal in the trade. Just as with any transaction, there are always two principals; the buyer and
                                 the seller. Dealers, acting as principals, buy and sell securities for their own account. When
                                 they receive a customer order to buy a security, they sell that security out of their inventory
                                 in the same manner as an automobile dealer sells you a car off the lot. When they receive
                                 a customer order to sell, dealers buy that security for their inventory, once again, similar to
                                 an automobile dealer who buys your old clunker from you.
                                      When selling from their inventories, dealers charge the buying customers a markup
                                 rather than a commission. When buying for their inventory, dealers charge the selling cus-
                                 tomers a markdown (they buy for less than they can sell it for— think about what happens
                                 when the auto dealer buys your used car from you and what it sells for on the lot a week
                                 later after they’ve cleaned it up).



                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                        The term principal has several meanings in the securities industry. A broker-
                                                    dealer acts as a principal in a dealer transaction. A principal of a firm is a person
                                                    who acts in a supervisory capacity. Principal can also mean the face value of a
                                                    bond or asset in a trust.

                                      A firm cannot act as both a broker and a dealer in the same transaction.




                             *
                         EXAMPLE                         A firm cannot make a market in a stock, mark up that stock, and then add an
                                                    agency commission. If the firm acts as a broker, it may charge a commission. If it
                                                    acts as a dealer, it may charge a markup or markdown. Violation of this practice is
                                                    called making a hidden profit.

                                                             Broker                                  Dealer

                                               Acts as an agent, transacting        Acts as a principal, dealing in
                                               orders on the client’s behalf        securities for its own account and at
                                                                                    its own risk

                                               Charges a commission                 Charges a markup or markdown

                                               Is not a market maker                Makes markets and/or takes positions
                                                                                    (long or short) in securities

                                               Must disclose its role and the       Must disclose its role to the client, but
                                               amount of its commission to          not necessarily the amount or source
                                               the client                           of the markup or markdown




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 550                                                                                                                  7/15/2016 2:03:29 PM
                                                                                                            Session 18   Trading Securities      551




                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                          An easy way to remember these relationships is to memorize the following
                                                     letters.
                                                          BAC/DPP—Brokers act as Agents for Commissions/Dealers act as Principals
                                                     for Profits.
                                                         ABCD—Agents that are Brokers for Commissions that must be Disclosed.



                   18. 2. 3 BIDS, OFFERS, AND QUOTES
                                         A firm quote is a market maker’s current bid and offer on a security. The current bid is
                                     the highest price at which the dealer will buy, and the current offer is the lowest price at
                                     which the dealer will sell. The difference between the bid and ask is known as the spread.
                                         Remember, when acting in a principal capacity, there are no commissions added.




                               *
                              EXAMPLE                     If WXYZ is quoted as 43.25 to .50, it means that the bid price (the price that
                                                     a customer would receive for his shares) is $43.25, and the ask price (the price
                                                     that the customer would pay to buy shares) is $43.50. The $.25 difference is the
                                                     dealer’s spread.




                                  !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT                   If a client has U.S. Treasury bonds she wishes to sell and receives a quote of
                                                     104.22, which represents the bid price (don’t select an answer choice that says “a
                                                     premium”). It is a premium, but that is not as good an answer.



                   18. 2. 4 TYPES OF ORDERS
                                         Many types of orders are available to customers.


                        18. 2. 4. 1 Price
                                        Orders that restrict the price of the transaction include the following:
                                     ■■ Market—executed immediately at the market price with no restrictions
                                     ■■ Limit—limits the amount paid or received for securities
                                     ■■ Stop—becomes a market order if the stock reaches or goes through the stop price
                                     ■■ Stop limit—entered as a stop order and changed to a limit order if the stock hits or
                                        goes through the trigger price




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 551                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:03:29 PM
     552        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                   18. 2. 4. 2 Time
                                    Limit orders based on time considerations include the following:
                                 ■■ Day—expires if not filled by the end of the day
                                 ■■ Good till canceled—does not expire until filled or canceled




                             Q
                 QUICK QUIZ 18.B                         Matching
                                                         A.     Broker
                                                         B.     Dealer
                                                         C.     Auction
                                                         D.     Negotiated
                                                         E.     Immediate execution

                                                    ___ 1.      Exchange market

                                                    ___ 2.      OTC market

                                                    ___ 3.      Agency capacity

                                                    ___ 4.      Principal capacity

                                                    ___ 5.      Market order

                                                    6.   Which of the following is appropriate justification for selling a stock short?
                                                         A.     To cut losses on a long position
                                                         B.     To benefit from a decline in the price of the stock
                                                         C.     To benefit from a rise in the price of the stock
                                                         D.     To seek a modest potential reward with limited risk

                                                    7.   When viewing several of your client’s trade confirmations, you notice that
                                                         a recent purchase was made of ABC stock where there was no commission
                                                         indicated while a sale took place of DEF stock in which the commission listed
                                                         was $55. From this information you could determine that
                                                           I.   ABC was purchased in an agency transaction
                                                          II.   ABC was purchased in a principal transaction
                                                         III.   DEF was sold in an agency transaction
                                                         IV.    DEF was sold in a principal transaction
                                                         A.     I and III
                                                         B.     I and IV
                                                         C.     II and III
                                                         D.     II and IV


                   18. 2. 4. 3 Market Orders
                                      A market order is sent immediately to the floor for execution without restrictions
                                 or limits. It is executed immediately at the current market price and has priority over all
                                 other types of orders. A market order to buy is executed at the lowest offering price avail-
                                 able; a market order to sell is executed at the highest bid price available. Those prices are




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 552                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:03:29 PM
                                                                                                           Session 18   Trading Securities      553




                                usually referred to as the inside market or inside quote. As long as the security is trading, a
                                market order guarantees execution.


                        18. 2. 4. 4 Limit Orders
                                     In a limit order, a customer limits the acceptable purchase or selling price. A limit
                                order can be executed only at the specified price or better. Better means lower in a buy
                                order and higher in a sell order. If the order cannot be executed at the market, the order
                                is left with the specialist (now called the DMM), who records the trade in the order book
                                and executes the order if and when the market price meets the limit order price.

                                18. 2. 4. 4. 1 Risks and Disadvantages of Limit Orders
                                     A customer who enters a limit order risks missing the chance to buy or sell, especially
                                if the market moves away from the limit price. The market price may never go as low as
                                the buy limit price or as high as the sell limit price.



                              !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT                 If any part of an order can be filled at the limit price, it is done. For example,
                                                 if a day limit order to buy 400 shares at $22.45 is turned in and all that can be
                                                 executed at that price or better is 200 shares before the market closes, that sale is
                                                 confirmed and the order for the balance is cancelled.


                        18. 2. 4. 5 Short Sales
                                     Selling short is a technique to profit from the decline in a stock’s price. The short seller
                                initially borrows stock from a broker-dealer to sell at the market. The investor expects the
                                stock price to decline enough to allow him to buy shares at a lower price and replace the
                                borrowed stock at a later date. Unless the stock price declines to zero, the short seller is
                                obligated to buy the stock and replace the borrowed shares to close the short position.
                                     Short sales are risky because if the stock price rises instead of falls, an investor still
                                must buy the shares to replace the borrowed stock—and a stock’s price can rise without
                                limit. Therefore, the position has unlimited risk.


                        18. 2. 4. 6 Stop Orders
                                    A stop order, also known as a stop loss order, may be entered to protect a profit or
                                prevent a loss if the stock begins to move in the wrong direction.
                                    The stop order becomes a market order once the stock trades at or moves through a
                                certain price, known as the stop price. Stop orders for listed stocks are usually left with
                                and executed by the specialist.
                                    A trade at or through (lower in the case of a sell stop; higher in the case of a buy stop)
                                the stop price triggers the order, which then becomes a market order. As a market order,
                                there is no assurance of any specific price. The order may wind up being executed at,
                                above, or below the stop price.
                                    A stop order takes two trades to execute:
                                ■■ Trigger—the trigger transaction at or through the stop price activates the trade
                                ■■ Execution—the stop order becomes a market order and is executed at the market
                                    price, completing the trade




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 553                                                                                                               7/15/2016 2:03:29 PM
     554        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                 18. 2. 4. 6. 1 Stop Limit Order
                                    A stop limit order is a stop order that, once triggered, becomes a limit order instead of
                                 a market order.




                             *
                         EXAMPLE                          An order that reads “sell 100 COD at 52 stop, 51.50 limit” means that the
                                                    stop will be activated at or below 52. Because a 51.50 limit applies, the order to
                                                    sell cannot be executed below 51.50.




                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         The uses of buy and sell stop orders are summarized below.
                                                         Buy Stop Orders (might be called stop-buy on the exam)
                                                         ■■ Protect against loss in a short stock position

                                                         ■■ Protect a gain from a short stock position

                                                         ■■ Establish a long position when a breakout occurs above the line of
                                                            resistance (i.e., stock prices rise above historic high levels)

                                                         Sell Stop Orders (might be called stop-sell on the exam)
                                                         ■■ Protect against loss in a long stock position

                                                         ■■ Protect a gain from a long stock position

                                                         ■■ Establish a short position when a breakout occurs below the line of
                                                            support (i.e., stock prices decline below low level)


                                 18. 2. 4. 6. 2 Mechanics of a Stop Order
                                     As stated above, it takes more than one trade for a stop order to be executed. The first
                                 of those, the trigger, occurs whenever the subject security trades at or through the stop
                                 price. In the case of a buy stop order, through means at a higher price. In the case of a sell
                                 stop order, through means at a lower price.
                                     Then, once the order has been triggered, unless it is a stop limit order, the next price
                                 in the market is the one at which the trade is executed. It will probably be easier to follow
                                 if we display an example.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 554                                                                                                               7/15/2016 2:03:29 PM
                                                                                                         Session 18   Trading Securities      555




                             *
                             EXAMPLE                  A client enters a buy stop order for 100 shares of XYZ at 40. Trades then oc-
                                                 cur at 38, 39, 39.90, 40.05, 40.10, and 39.78. What price did the client pay for
                                                 the stock? The order will be triggered as soon as the price gets to 40 or higher.
                                                 That would be the trade at 40.05. At that time, a market order is entered and the
                                                 client pays the next price (which could be more or less than 40). In this case, the
                                                 next price is 40.10 and that is the price per share paid by the client (we’re ignor-
                                                 ing any commissions).
                                                      How is this different for a stop limit order? If we change the above example
                                                 to make the order, buy stop at 40, limit 40, then the client is stating that once the
                                                 order has been triggered, enter a limit order and do not pay any more than 40
                                                 for the stock. Once again, the order is triggered with the trade at 40.05, but now,
                                                 because a limit order has been placed, we can’t buy on the next trade—40.10
                                                 is too high. However, the following trade at 39.78 allows us to meet the client’s
                                                 limit of paying no more than 40 for the stock.




                               !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT                There is a danger in using stop orders in that once they are triggered, the
                                                 marketplace receives an increase of sell orders in a falling market and buy orders
                                                 in a rising market. This can have the tendency to accelerate the direction of the
                                                 market; sell stops in a bearish market, buy stops in a bullish one.


                        18. 2. 4. 7 Block Trade
                                      NYSE Rule 72 defines a “block” as at least 10,000 shares or $200,000 USD, whichever
                                 is less. Thus, for stocks priced at less than $20, a 10,000-share trade can be a block, but in
                                 higher-priced stocks even a 1,000-share trade could constitute a block.




                   18. 3      HIGH FREQUENCY TRADING

                                      Over the past 10 years, high-frequency trading (HFT) has gone from a small, niche
                                 strategy in financial markets to the dominant form of trading. It currently accounts for well
                                 over half of trading volume in U.S. equity markets, 40% in European equity markets, and
                                 is quickly growing in Asian, fixed income, commodity, foreign exchange, and nearly every
                                 other market. Although a precise definition of HFT does not exist, it is generally classified
                                 as autonomous computerized trading that seeks quick profits using high-speed connections
                                 to financial exchanges. The objective of HFT is to take advantage of minute discrepancies
                                 in prices and trade on them quickly and in huge quantities. As computers get more techni-
                                 cally advanced, trading practices have increased in size and algorithms have become more
                                 sophisticated. The trades are done at close to the speed of light. In fact, HFT firms have
                                 moved their servers to be near an exchange computer to further increase trading speeds.
                                      Regulators across the globe are spending considerable effort deciding if and how to
                                 regulate HFT. On the one hand, HFT appears to make markets more efficient. Algorithmic




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 555                                                                                                             7/15/2016 2:03:30 PM
     556        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                 trading in general, and HFT specifically, increases the accuracy of prices and lowers trans-
                                 action costs. On the other hand, HFT appears to make the financial system as a whole
                                 more fragile. The rapid fall and subsequent rise in prices that occurred in U.S. markets on
                                 May 6, 2010 (known as the Flash Crash, when the Dow Jones Industrial Average plunged
                                 about 1,000 point in a matter of minutes), was, in part, due to HFT. Because HFT firms do
                                 not openly disclose their trading activities, it has so far been unclear how and why HFT
                                 produces these outcomes; a circumstance that has greatly increased the controversy sur-
                                 rounding its existence.
                                      A typical objective of high frequency traders is to identify and capture minute price
                                 discrepancies present in the market. They do so with no human intervention, using com-
                                 puters to automatically capture and read market data in real-time, transmit thousands of
                                 order messages per second to an exchange, and execute, cancel, or replace orders based on
                                 new information on prices or demand. In most cases, the trades are executed before indi-
                                 vidual investors know the quotes of prices or that the trades happened at all. For example,
                                 a computer recognizes when one exchange quotes an ask price of one cent more than the
                                 quote on another exchange. This computer then trades in extraordinarily large volumes
                                 on this information, taking advantage of the arbitrage opportunity in a split second. Before
                                 individual and other investors who do not possess the same sophisticated technology real-
                                 ize, the one-cent spread between the two exchanges is erased and the stock price trades at
                                 the same level.


             18. 3. 1 BENEFITS OF HFT
                                 ■■ Increased liquidity in the markets, especially for more active stocks
                                 ■■ Market efficiency— price differences are arbitraged away leading to narrower spreads
                                 ■■ Reduced costs, especially for institutional purchasers such as mutual funds


             18. 3. 2 NEGATIVES OF HFT
                                 ■■ Market manipulation—with the huge volume that can be generated, HFT traders
                                    entering phony trades that are later cancelled can prompt market activity that would
                                    not have happened had these HFT traders not manipulated the market to their advan-
                                    tage
                                 ■■ Hurts small investors because they do not have access to the same trading information
                                    anywhere near as soon as the HFT traders
                                 ■■ “Snowballing” effect of HFT—for years, one of the problems with stop orders was the
                                    acceleration of a downward move when sell stop orders were triggered. With HFT,
                                    the volume is so much greater that this movement, as we saw in the Flash Crash, is
                                    magnified.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 556                                                                                                      7/15/2016 2:03:30 PM
                                                                                                            Session 18   Trading Securities      557




                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                          HFTs rely on very low latency for their algorithmic trading schemes. Low
                                                     latency is just a fancy way of saying quick trading. It’s not unusual nowadays to
                                                     have a DMA (direct market access) customer enter and have executed 5,000 or
                                                     6,000 orders or more in one second. Trades are being executed and reported in
                                                     microseconds. HFT customers are the most likely customers to be provided by
                                                     their broker-dealer with DMA, which bypasses the firm’s trading desk. This kind
                                                     of DMA trading is called low or “no-touch.” No-touch doesn’t mean no obliga-
                                                     tion; the broker-dealers still have an obligation to monitor their DMA customer’s
                                                     behavior. No broker-dealer can throw its hands up and say to the regulators, “We
                                                     didn’t know what they were doing.”




                   18. 4         DARK POOLS

                                         Dark pools, sometimes referred to as dark pools of liquidity or simply dark liquidity, is
                                     trading volume that occurs or liquidity that is not openly available to the public. The bulk
                                     of this volume represents trades engaged in by institutional traders and trading desks away
                                     from the exchange markets. Generally, these are large volume transactions that occur on
                                     crossing networks or alternative trading systems (ATS) that match buy and sell orders
                                     electronically for execution without routing the order to an exchange or other market
                                     where quote, last sale price, and volume information is displayed.
                                         Institutional trading desks that choose to use dark pools are able to execute large block
                                     orders without impacting public quotes or price, or revealing their investment strategy
                                     regarding any of their holding accumulations or divestitures. Additionally, orders can be
                                     placed anonymously so that the identity of the entity placing the order is unknown to the
                                     general investing public along with the volume and price for the transaction. The con-
                                     cern with dark pools is that some market participants are left disadvantaged because they
                                     cannot see the trades, volume, or prices agreed upon within the pools, and thus market
                                     transparency is darkened.
                                         Dark pools account for about 17% of the trading volume in the U.S. stock market.




                                Q
                       QUICK QUIZ 18.C               1.   A client order is received with the following instructions: Buy stop 100
                                                          shares ABC at 34, limit 34.20. After the order is submitted, trades occur at
                                                          33, 33.90, 34.10, 33.85, 34.05, 34.25. More than likely, the client paid
                                                          A.   33.85
                                                          B.   34.05
                                                          C.   34.10
                                                          D.   34.25

                                                     2.   A dark pool would most likely be used by
                                                          A.   a market manipulator
                                                          B.   a high frequency trader
                                                          C.   an institution
                                                          D.   a retail investor




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 557                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:03:30 PM
       558         Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




             Q U I C K               Q U I Z           A N S W E R S

        Quick Quiz 18.A                                                        6. B.   Selling short does not reduce the risk of
                                                                                       a long position—the investor is selling
           1. B.       A signed loan consent agreement permits the                     borrowed, not owned, stock. The appropriate
                       firm to lend the customer’s margin securities.                  time to sell short is when one anticipates
                       Firms must keep customer margin securities                      that the stock price is about to drop. The
                       segregated from firm securities—commingling                     investor wants to sell at a high price and buy
                       is prohibited.                                                  later at a lower price. Both the reward and
                                                                                       risk potential of selling short are high. If the
           2. C. The definition of a mixed margin account                              stock price moves down dramatically, the
                       is one that contains both long and short                        investor can reap a large gain. If it moves up
                       positions.                                                      dramatically, the investor can lose a great
                                                                                       deal of money.
           3. C.       The initial margin required when purchasing
                       a security is known as a margin call. If the            7. C.   Whenever a trade is made without a
                       equity in the account falls below the broker-                   commission indicated on the confirmation,
                       dealer’s minimum requirement, there is a                        it means that a markup or markdown was
                       house call for additional funds. If the BD                      charged. That makes it a dealer or principal
                       doesn’t have a house requirement or the                         transaction. Commissions are always
                       call is not met and the account continues                       disclosed on agency transactions.
                       to lose equity, there will be a maintenance
                       margin call in accordance with the rules of           Quick Quiz 18.C
                       the SROs. The call rate is what banks charge
                       broker-dealer on money loaned against stock             1. A.   This is two orders in one. The first does not
                       market collateral.                                              become triggered until the price gets as high
                                                                                       at 34. That happens at 34.10. Then, a buy
        Quick Quiz 18.B                                                                stop order at 34.20 is entered (pay 34.20
                                                                                       or less) and the trade at 33.85 meets that
           1. C                                                                        requirement.
           2. D                                                                2. C.   Dark pools are favored by institutions because
                                                                                       of the anonymity it gives to their trading.
           3. A

           4. B

           5. E




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 558                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:03:30 PM
                             19
                             Performance Measures


                             U
                                       ltimately, the judge of the value of an investment adviser is the
                                       performance of the client’s account. There are a number of differ-
                                       ent ways to measure the performance and one must always keep
                             in mind that it is how well the account meets the investor’s objectives that
                             counts. For example, an account that appreciated 10% in one year while dis-
                             tributing an income return of 1% is not meeting the goals of a client needing
                             current income.
                                 The Series 66 exam will include 3 questions on the material presented in
                             this session. ■




                                                                                                         559




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 559                                                                         7/15/2016 2:03:30 PM
            OBJECTIVES


                                 When you have completed this session, you should be able to:

                             ■■ compute the investment return measurements most commonly found on the exam;

                             ■■ define the difference between current yield and yield to maturity; and

                             ■■ select the appropriate benchmarks for various portfolios.




      560




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 560                                                                               7/15/2016 2:03:30 PM
                                                                                                Session 19   Performance Measures      561




                   19. 1     YIELD MEASURES
                                  Referring to the short example given in the introduction to this session, for income
                              oriented investors, probably the most important performance measurement is yield. In
                              Unit 2, Session 5, we discussed the various types of yield on debt securities so we’ll just
                              mention a few highlights here.


                   19. 1. 1 CURRENT YIELD
                                  The current yield on any investment, debt or equity, is simply the annual income
                              stream (interest or dividends) divided by the current market price. In the case of a debt
                              security, the annual interest is always fixed as a percentage of the par value and doesn’t
                              fluctuate when the market price of the security changes. That means that a bond with a 5%
                              coupon (interest) rate, will always be paying $50 per year, divided into two semi-annual
                              payments of $25. If the market price of that bond is currently 80 ($800), the current yield
                              (also called current return) is 6.25% (50 divided by 800). If the current market price of the
                              bond is 125 ($1,250), the current yield is 4% (50 divided by 1,250). The arithmetic is the
                              same when computing the current yield on a stock.



                             !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                   When asking for the current yield on a stock, the question will usually give
                                              you the quarterly dividend rate. Be sure to multiply that by 4 to arrive at the
                                              annual dividend payment. For example: ABC common stock’s most recently quar-
                                              terly dividend was $.36 per share. ABC expects to keep the dividend payments
                                              at that level. If ABC common stock has a current market value of $32 per share,
                                              the current return is? The first choice will probably be 1.1% which is incorrect
                                              because that is based on a single dividend. You must multiply the $.36 by 4 to
                                              arrive at the annual dividend of $1.44. Then, divide that by the current market
                                              price of $32 and the correct answer is 4.5%



                   19. 1. 2 YIELD TO MATURITY
                                  Yield to maturity would only apply to a debt security because they have a loan princi-
                              pal that is to be paid back at some future date (the maturity date). It is often referred to as
                              the true yield because it is the most accurate reflection of the actual return to be received
                              by the investor. Unlike our work in a previous session, here you need merely understand
                              the concept.



                             !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT             The yield to maturity (YTM) of a bond is actually the bond’s internal rate of
                                              return (IRR) because it represents the discount rate that equates to the discount-
                                              ed value of the bond’s future cash flows to its current price.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 561                                                                                                      7/15/2016 2:03:31 PM
     562        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




             19. 2           RETURN MEASURES
                                     There will probably be two computations on your exam dealing with different types
                                 of returns. We’ll cover all of them and indicate which are the most (and least)likely to
                                 appear on your test.


             19. 2. 1 TOTAL RETURN
                                     Total return includes the income from dividends or interest plus any capital apprecia-
                                 tion (or less any capital depreciation) over a given time period, usually one year. As such,
                                 total return is considered to be the best measure of how a security has performed for an
                                 investor.




                             *
                         EXAMPLE                         A common stock purchased for $20 with an annual dividend of $1 is sold
                                                    after one year for $24. The total return on the investment is $5: $1 in dividends
                                                    plus $4 in capital appreciation. The total return, then, is 25% ($5 ÷ $20 = 25%).




                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                         The exam will require you to know how to calculate total return. Keep in
                                                    mind that the total annual return on an investment includes income and capital
                                                    appreciation. In the case of bonds held to maturity, this is the YTM. Otherwise, it
                                                    is the coupon income plus any appreciation or less any price depreciation. In the
                                                    case of stocks, one would use the dividend income plus or minus the appreciation
                                                    or depreciation.



             19. 2. 2 HOLDING PERIOD RETURN
                                     The length of time an investor owns an investment is called the holding period. The
                                 return for that period is called the holding period return (HPR). HPR is the total return,
                                 income plus capital appreciation, of an investment over a specified period, the holding
                                 period. It is essentially the same as total return, but, whereas total return is usually com-
                                 puted on an annual basis, holding period return can be for any period.




                             *
                         EXAMPLE                         An investment purchased for $100 and sold three years later for $120 ($20
                                                    capital appreciation) after paying a total of $30 ($10 per year) in dividends has
                                                    a holding period return of 50% ($120 + $30 = $150). The total gain is $150 −
                                                    $100 = $50. A $50 return on a $100 investment is 50% ($50 ÷ $100 = 50%).




                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                        Holding period return is not an annualized return. It is the percentage return
                                                    over a defined period.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 562                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:03:31 PM
                                                                                                       Session 19   Performance Measures      563




                                  !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT                    We tend to focus on looking at the total return and holding period return for
                                                     equities, but it is also a valid measurement for bond returns. In this case, we com-
                                                     bine the interest received and any appreciation or depreciation. However, there is
                                                     one other factor that is sometimes considered: the rate at which the coupons are
                                                     reinvested. If we assume the bondholder will keep the bond until maturity date,
                                                     in a period of rising interest rates, the bondholder should be able to reinvest the
                                                     coupons at a higher rate than the coupon, thus causing the holding period return
                                                     to exceed the yield to maturity. If, on the other hand, interest rates are falling,
                                                     the coupons will only be able to be reinvested at a lower rate causing a holding
                                                     period return that is less than the bond’s YTM.



                   19. 2. 3 ANNUALIZED RETURN
                                         Annualized return is the return an investor would have received had he held an
                                     investment for one year. Annualized return is determined by multiplying the actual return
                                     by an annualization factor. The annualization factor is the number of months in the year
                                     divided by the number of months an investment is held.



                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                          An investor receives $5 on a $100 investment held for 6 months. The an-
                                                     nualized return is determined by multiplying the 5% return by the annualization
                                                     factor of 2 (12 months ÷ 6 months = 2) for an annualized return of 10%. An-
                                                     other investor has a capital gain of 30% from an investment held for 18 months.
                                                     The annualized return is 20%, calculated as follows: 30 × (12 ÷ 18) = 20.




                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                          The formula we’ve shown you is only approximate (the computation has
                                                     never been asked on the exam). In reality, because of compounding, the annual-
                                                     ized return would actually be a bit different. In the first example shown, it would
                                                     be about 10.2% instead of 10%. In the second example (the 18-month holding
                                                     period), it would be about 19.1% instead of 20%.



                   19. 2. 4 INFLATION-ADJUSTED RETURN (REAL RETURN)
                                         Because inflation reduces the buying power of a dollar, investment performance mea-
                                     surements are often adjusted to provide a measure of the buying power earned from a given
                                     investment. Returns that have been adjusted for inflation are called real rates of return.
                                     This is a frequently required computation on the exam.
                                         To determine the inflation-adjusted rate of return of debt security, reduce its nominal
                                     return by the inflation rate as reflected in the consumer price index (CPI).
                                         To determine the inflation-adjusted rate of return of an equity security, reduce the
                                     total return (as taught above), by the inflation rate as reflected in the consumer price
                                     index (CPI).




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 563                                                                                                             7/15/2016 2:03:31 PM
     564        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                        A bond with an 8% coupon has a nominal return of 8%. If inflation (as mea-
                                                    sured by the CPI) is 3%, then the inflation-adjusted return of the bond invest-
                                                    ment is 8% − 3%, or 5%.




                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         Let’s revisit the total return example from a couple of pages ago:
                                                         A common stock purchased for $20 with an annual dividend of $1 is sold
                                                    after one year for $24. The total return on the investment is $5: $1 in dividends
                                                    plus $4 in capital appreciation. The total return, then, is 25% ($5 ÷ $20 = 25%).
                                                    If the question asked for the “real rate of return” and told you that the CPI in-
                                                    crease for the period was 6%, you would subtract that from the 25% total return
                                                    to arrive at an inflation-adjusted return of 19%.




                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         For fixed income investors, inflation and taxes reduce the buying power of
                                                    their dollars. For an investor in the 25% tax bracket in a 2.5% inflationary envi-
                                                    ronment, an investment that yields 10% before taxes provides the investor with a
                                                    5% inflation-adjusted, after-tax return. To calculate the 5% after-tax inflation ad-
                                                    justed return, first determine the after-tax return. In this case, 10% less 25% for
                                                    taxes results in a 7.5% after-tax return. The formal mathematical way to calculate
                                                    inflation adjusted returns is to divide (1 + the return) by (1 + the inflation rate) −
                                                    1. In this case, divide 1.075 by 1.025 and then subtract 1, or 1.049 − 1 = 4.9%.
                                                         A shorthand way to approximate the real rate of return is to reduce the
                                                    return by the amount of inflation during the period. In this case, 7.5% less 2.5%
                                                    inflation results in a 5% after-tax inflation adjusted return. Even though a calcula-
                                                    tion of this type will not be on your exam, you need to understand the concept
                                                    that your final returns are reduced by both taxes and inflation.




                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT                        The exam will require you to know how to calculate the approximate
                                                    inflation-adjusted return by merely subtracting the CPI from the total return.



             19. 2. 5             AFTER-TAX RETURN/YIELD
                                     Capital gains and income are generally taxable; thus, taxes reduce the return of an
                                 investment. The after-tax return, also known as the adjusted return, is determined by
                                 reducing the investment’s return by the client’s tax rate.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 564                                                                                                                   7/15/2016 2:03:31 PM
                                                                                                       Session 19   Performance Measures      565




                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                          The after-tax return of an investment that yields 10% for an investor in the
                                                     25% tax bracket is calculated by multiplying the return by (1 − .25), or .75. The
                                                     investor retains 75% of the 10% yield, for a 7.5% after-tax return. Likewise,
                                                     an investment that returns 45% over three years provides an after-tax return of
                                                     33.75% (.75 x 45%).

                                         The importance of after-tax return is realizing that any investor’s return is going to be
                                     reduced by the effects of taxation whether it is the favorable capital gains tax or the higher
                                     ordinary income rate. That is the beauty of programs such as the Roth IRA or Section
                                     529 Plan where it is possible to have totally tax-free returns. Remember, even though the
                                     interest on a municipal bond may be tax-free, any capital gains are not.


                   19. 2. 6 PROBABLE RETURN
                                          Unlike historical or actual rates of returns, probable returns are estimates of the likely
                                     returns an investment may yield. To determine the probable return of an investment, the
                                     adviser assigns a probability to each return that the investment is likely to earn and then
                                     multiplies that return by the probability of it occurring. The sum of those probable returns
                                     is the expected return for that investment. The formula is as follows: expected or probable
                                     return = (probability of return #1 × possible return #1) + (probability of return #2 × pos-
                                     sible return #2).




                               *
                              EXAMPLE                     The probable (expected) return of an investment with a 30% probability of
                                                     returning 15% and a 70% chance of returning 10% has a total expected return
                                                     of 11.5%, calculated as follows: (.30 × 15% = 4.5%) + (.70 × 10% = 7.0%), or
                                                     4.5% + 7.0% = 11.5%.

                                          In effect, this return reflects the arithmetic (mean) return of the portfolio.. When one
                                     constructs a portfolio, there are usually securities with different grades of risk and, hence,
                                     different expectations of reward. Investors view the portfolio as a whole, looking to maxi-
                                     mize for return for each level of risk. This overall view, or mean, of the entire portfolio is
                                     the expected or probable return of the portfolio.



                                  !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT                    Don’t be surprised to get a question similar to our example above, but, with
                                                     one of the possibilities being a negative. Suppose our example had said there
                                                     was a 30% probability of returning 15%, a 40% chance of returning 10%, and a
                                                     30% chance of losing 8%. The expected return would be (.30 × 15% = 4.5%) +
                                                     (.40 × 10% = 4.0%) + (.30 × –8% = –2.4%) for a total of 6.1% expected return.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 565                                                                                                             7/15/2016 2:03:31 PM
     566        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




             19. 2. 7 RISK-ADJUSTED RETURN (SHARPE RATIO)
                                      Securities practitioners have developed many measures to quantify the risk character-
                                 istics of a portfolio. One such measure that may show up on the exam is called the Sharpe
                                 ratio. The ratio is calculated by subtracting the risk-free rate (e.g., the 90-day Treasury
                                 bill rate) from the overall return of the portfolio. This result, which is the portfolio’s risk
                                 premium, is then divided by the standard deviation of the portfolio. This ratio measures
                                 the amount of return per unit of risk taken. The higher the ratio, the better or more return
                                 per unit of risk taken.



                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                         The Sharpe Ratio measures risk-adjusted return.




                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT                        You must know that the three components of the Sharpe Ratio are:
                                                         ■■ the actual return minus;

                                                         ■■ the risk-free rate (the 90-day T bill rate) divided by; and

                                                         ■■ the standard deviation.
                                                         Beta is not a part of this ratio.


                   19. 2. 7. 1 Risk Premium
                                      It should be clear that in order to have a positive Sharpe Ratio, our actual return on an
                                 investment must exceed the risk-free return. Therefore, any investor would surely expect
                                 to achieve that higher return or the investment would not be made. This return is known
                                 as the risk premium. Specifically, the risk premium is a premium demanded for internal
                                 and external risk factors.
                                      Internal risk factors are diversifiable and include business risk, credit risk, liquidity risk,
                                 currency risk, and country risk. External risk factors, such as market risk and interest rate
                                 risk, are macroeconomic in nature and are non-diversifiable.
                                      The required rate of return on any investment is a combination of the risk-free rate
                                 plus a risk premium. For equity investments, the risk premium can be determined by refer-
                                 ence to a risk premium curve or by using the capital asset pricing model (CAPM).


             19. 2. 8 INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN (IRR)
                                     IRR has been discussed previously in Session 12. We’re just going to list a couple of the
                                 points that are important for the exam:
                                 ■■ IRR is the preferred method of measuring the return on a DPP;
                                 ■■ IRR takes into consideration the time value of money; and
                                 ■■ IRR is the way the yield to maturity of a bond is computed.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 566                                                                                                              7/15/2016 2:03:31 PM
                                                                                               Session 19    Performance Measures      567




                        19. 2. 8. 1 Time-Weighted Returns
                                   This is a method of determining an internal rate of return by evaluating the perfor-
                                mance of portfolio managers without the influence of additional investor deposits or with-
                                drawals to or from the portfolio.


                        19. 2. 8. 2 Dollar-Weighted Returns
                                    This is a method of determining the internal rate of return that an individual investor
                                earned on the basis of the investor’s particular cash flow into and out of the portfolio.


                        19. 2. 8. 3 Time-Weighted vs. Dollar-Weighted Returns
                                     Although time-weighted returns and dollar-weighted returns are both methods of
                                determining an internal rate of return, they have very different purposes. Time-weighted
                                returns are used to evaluate the performance of portfolio manag­ers separate from the influ-
                                ence of additional investor deposits or withdrawals. Dollar-weighted returns are used to
                                determine the rate of return an individual investor earned on the basis of the investor’s
                                particular cash flows into and out of a portfolio. The example comparing Portfolios A and
                                B illustrates the difference between dollar-weighted returns and time-weighted returns.
                                     Assume we are comparing two portfolios, A and B. Over a four-year period, they each
                                earn exactly the same return per period. However, each portfolio has a different set of
                                investor deposits and withdrawals.
                                                                          Portfolio A
                                                    Investor Deposits    Beginning of    End of Period       Periodic Rate
                                         Period
                                                     or Withdrawals      Period Value       Value             of Return
                                         0               $1,000             $1,000          $1,200               20.00%
                                         1                ($400)              $800           $700              –12.50%
                                         2                 $300             $1,000          $1,400               40.00%
                                         3                ($200)            $1,200          $1,000             –16.67%
                                         4              ($1,000)             —                —                   —
                                         DWR =          8.2311%                             TWR =             5.2034%


                                                                          Portfolio B­
                                                  Investor Deposits or   Beginning of       End of          Periodic Rate of
                                     Period
                                                      Withdrawals        Period Value    Period Value            Return
                                     0                  $1,000              $1,000         $1,200               20.00%
                                     1                    $400              $1,600         $1,400             –12.50%
                                     2                   ($400)             $1,000         $1,400               40.00%
                                     3                    $400              $1,800         $1,500             –16.67%
                                     4                 ($1,500)               —               —                   —
                                     DWR =             2.0245%                           TWR =                 5.2034%




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 567                                                                                                      7/15/2016 2:03:31 PM
     568        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                      Using the uneven cash flow keys of a financial calculator (something you will never
                                 have to do on the exam), we have calculated the dollar-weighted return (DWR) for
                                 Portfolio A to be 8.23% and the DWR for Portfolio B to be 2.02%. Is it reasonable to use
                                 a methodology that results in drastically different returns when each portfolio produced
                                 the same periodic rates of return? The answer depends on our goal. To evaluate the overall
                                 return for the portfolio, we want to use DWR. This provides the investor with his actual
                                 return. For portfolio managers, we generally do not use DWR. This is because managers
                                 do not control the timing of additional investments into the portfolio or the tim­ing of
                                 withdrawals from the portfolio. A more accurate measure of the portfolio manager’s ability
                                 is the time-weighted return.



             19. 3           BENCHMARK PORTFOLIOS
                                     Tens of thousands of stocks trade in the stock markets. Stock indexes, such as the S&P
                                 500 or the Utility Index, are smaller groups of stocks that serve as a benchmark for measur-
                                 ing the performance of the overall market or sectors of the market.
                                     Indexes are generally weighted for the capitalization (number of outstanding shares)
                                 of the companies included. Therefore, a large company’s stock price changes will have a
                                 greater effect on the index. Indexes are often used as benchmark portfolios against which
                                 managed portfolios are measured in order to gauge the performance, or added value, of the
                                 fund manager. In addition, index mutual funds and ETFs will invest in the securities that
                                 compose an index to specifically mirror the index’s performance. Following is a listing of
                                 indexes or averages that may appear on the exam.



                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                        The exam will want you to know which index serves as the benchmark for
                                                    which type of portfolio:
                                                         ■■ Large Cap—S&P 500

                                                         ■■ Mid Cap—S&P 400

                                                         ■■ Small Cap—Russell 2000

                                                         ■■ International Stocks—EAFE



             19. 3. 1             DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
                                      The best known of all of the market indexes are those published by Dow Jones &
                                 Company. There are probably two reasons why the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA)
                                 is so well known: first, because the 30 industrial stocks are among the 30 best-known cor-
                                 porations in the world and second (and some would say more important), the Dow Jones &
                                 Company also publishes The Wall Street Journal, the nation’s leading financial newspaper.
                                 Because it is price weighted, the Dow Jones is truly an average. Originally it was computed
                                 by adding together the prices of one share for each of the 30 different companies and then
                                 dividing by 30. That had to be changed as soon as the first one of those 30 companies had a
                                 2:1 stock split. Because a stock split will cause the market price of the stock to drop—that




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 568                                                                                                       7/15/2016 2:03:31 PM
                                                                                           Session 19   Performance Measures      569




                             is, the average would be distorted by continuing to divide the 30 current market prices by
                             30—an adjustment had to be made to the 30 (called the divisor). Over the years, stock
                             splits and other dis­tributions have caused that original divisor of 30 to be adjusted. There
                             are three other Dow Jones Averages: the 20 transportations, the 15 utilities, and the com-
                             posite of all 65. On November 1, 1999, history was made when non-NYSE stocks were
                             included in the DJIA for the first time. Added to the average were Microsoft and Intel,
                             which are both listed on Nasdaq. The most recent addition (as of the date of this writing)
                             was Apple Computer, by market capitalization, the most valuable company in the world.


                   19. 3. 2 STANDARD & POOR’S 500
                                  The composition of the Standard & Poor’s 500 (S&P 500) Composite Index includes
                             four main groups of securities: 400 industrials, 20 transportation companies, 40 public
                             utilities, and 40 financial institutions. The S&P 500 is a cap-weighted index using a base
                             period of 1941–1943 equal to 10. Although most of the stocks in the S&P 500 are listed on
                             the NYSE, many of the highest priced issues—Google, Apple, and Priceline—are traded
                             on the Nasdaq Stock Market.


                   19. 3. 3 NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE) INDEX
                                  The NYSE publishes a composite index that covers all of the common stocks listed on
                             the NYSE, more than 3,000 different companies. This index provides the most compre-
                             hensive measure of market activity on the NYSE. The NYSE index is cap weighted, simi-
                             lar to the S&P 500, but the base is December 31, 1965, and the index for the base is 50.


                   19. 3. 4 NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX
                                 The over-the-counter market is represented by the Nasdaq Composite Index, which
                             covers more than 3,000 over-the-counter companies. The Nasdaq Composite Index is
                             calculated in a manner similar to those used for the S&P and NYSE indexes, with a base
                             period of February 5, 1971, and an index number of 100. These indexes, their subgroups,
                             and several other popular indexes are quoted daily in The Wall Street Journal. As with the
                             others (except for the Dow Jones), this is also a cap-weighted index.


                   19. 3. 5 RUSSELL 2000 INDEX
                                  The Russell 2000 index measures the performance of the small-cap segment of the
                             U.S. equity universe. It includes approximately 2,000 of the smallest securities based upon
                             their market capitalization (minimum market cap of $300 million). Like most of the oth-
                             ers, it is market-cap weighted with the median market cap being something approximating
                             $600 million.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 569                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:03:31 PM
     570        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




             19. 3. 6 EAFE
                                      The EAFE, sometimes referred to as the MSCI EAFE (it was developed by Morgan
                                 Stanley Capital International), is an index of foreign stocks. The index is market capital-
                                 ization weighted. The EAFE acronym stands for Europe, Australasia, and Far East.
                                      The index includes a selection of stocks from 21 developed countries outside of the
                                 U.S. and Canada. The index has been calculated since the end of 1969 making it the old-
                                 est truly international stock index. It is probably the most common benchmark for foreign
                                 stock funds.


             19. 3. 7 THE WILSHIRE 5000
                                    This is another market or cap-weighted index, but what makes it different is that it
                                 consists of virtually every U.S.-based company listed on the stock exchanges including the
                                 Nasdaq Stock Market but not the OTC Bulletin Board. When it was initially created in
                                 1974, it did contain close to 5,000 issues, but now it has about 3,700.



                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT                       If you are asked to identify the index that reflects the broadest coverage of
                                                    the U.S. stock markets, it is the Wilshire 5000.




                             Q
                 QUICK QUIZ 19.A                    1.   Which of the following is a price-weighted average?
                                                         A.     Dow Jones Industrial Average
                                                         B.     MSCI EAFE
                                                         C.     Russell 2000
                                                         D.     S&P 500

                                                    2.   An investor following foreign securities would be most interested in the per-
                                                         formance of the
                                                         A.     Dow Jones Industrial Average
                                                         B.     MSCI EAFE
                                                         C.     Russell 2000
                                                         D.     S&P 500

                                                    3.   An investor purchases 100 shares of GHI common stock at a price of $50 per
                                                         share. Six months later, the stock is sold for $52 per share. In the interim, the
                                                         investor has received 2 quarterly dividends of $0.50 and the CPI has risen by
                                                         2%. Expressed as a percentage, which of the following statements is TRUE?
                                                           I.   The investor’s total return is 6%.
                                                          II.   The investor’s annualized return is approximately 12%.
                                                         III.   The investor’s real rate of return is 4%.
                                                         IV.    The investor’s holding period return is 6%.
                                                          A.    I and III
                                                          B.    II and III
                                                          C.    I and IV
                                                          D.    I, II, III, and IV

                                                    Quick Quiz answers can be found at the end of the session.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 570                                                                                                                   7/15/2016 2:03:31 PM
                                                                                          Session 19   Performance Measures       571




                        Q U I C K         Q U I Z          A N S W E R S

                   Quick Quiz 19.A                                         3. D.   All of these are true. The investor has a
                                                                                   capital gain of $2 per share and has received
                      1. A. The only major benchmark that is price-                $1 per share in dividends. That is a total
                              weighted is the Dow Jones.                           return of $3 on an investment of $50 or 6%.
                                                                                   Because the holding period was 6 months,
                      2. B. The Morgan Stanley Capital International               the annualized return is approximately
                              EAFE (Europe, Australasia, Far East) index           double the 6% or 12%. With an inflation rate
                              is the most popular one for benchmarking             of 2%, the real rate of return was 4% and the
                              foreign portfolios.                                  holding period return is the same as the total
                                                                                   return.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 571                                                                                                    7/15/2016 2:03:31 PM
Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 572   7/15/2016 2:03:31 PM
                             20
                             Retirement Plans and
                             Educational Funding
                             Programs


                             R
                                     etirement plans allow investors to accumulate resources to fund their
                                     retirement. Individuals accomplish this through business-sponsored
                                     retirement plans, personal plans, or individual and corporate retire-
                             ment plans. To encourage Americans to save for retirement, Congress has
                             passed legislation that allows investors to invest in certain retirement plans
                             on a tax-deductible and/or tax-deferred basis.
                                 Throughout this session, we give you the contribution limits for all plans
                             described that are current for those filing 2015 tax returns. It is highly un-
                             likely that any of those numbers, other than perhaps the IRA contribution
                             limit, will be asked on the exam. Therefore, you should consider these as
                             included for reference purposes, not for testing. The Series 66 exam will in-
                             clude approximately 5 questions on the material presented in this session. ■




                                                                                                          573




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 573                                                                          7/15/2016 2:03:31 PM
            OBJECTIVES


                                 When you have completed this session, you should be able to:

                             ■■ describe the unique features of traditional, Roth, and simplified employee pension plan
                                individual retirement accounts;

                             ■■ explain the purpose of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 and its pri-
                                mary features including the fiduciary obligations under the Uniform Prudent Investor Act;

                             ■■ define and differentiate between individual retirement accounts, Keogh plans, 403(b)
                                plans, qualified corporate retirement plans, and nonqualified corporate retirement plans;

                             ■■ understand distributions from qualified plans and individual retirement accounts;

                             ■■ recognize the differences between the two major types of education funding programs;
                                and

                             ■■ compare and contrast UGMA and UTMA accounts.




      574




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 574                                                                                          7/15/2016 2:03:32 PM
                                                                              Session 20   Retirement Plans and Educational Funding Programs      575




                   20. 1         INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ARRANGEMENTS (IRAs)



                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                          Although individual retirement arrangements is the technical IRS term, (not
                                                     tested), because everyone refers to these as individual retirement accounts (IRAs),
                                                     we’re going to use the common phrase to avoid confusion.

                                         Individual retirement accounts (IRAs) were created to encourage people to save for
                                     their retirement. Most individuals with earned income may open and contribute to an
                                     IRA. Three types of IRAs are available, with different contribution, tax, and distribution
                                     characteristics: traditional IRAs, Roth IRAs, and simplified employee pension plan (SEP)
                                     IRAs.
                                         IRAs are not to be confused with qualified plans or nonqualified plans used by busi-
                                     nesses. Later in this unit we will cover topics such as pension plans, 401(k) plans, and
                                     deferred compensation plans. At this point, keep in mind that a qualified plan means that
                                     it meets the IRS requirements for the contributions to the plan to be tax deductible and
                                     the earnings to grow tax deferred. Nonqualified plans do not enjoy most of the tax benefits
                                     of qualified plans.



                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                         Although we may include some actual contribution limits, it is unlikely that
                                                     you will have to know any other than the IRA and Coverdell numbers.



                   20. 1. 1 TRADITIONAL IRAS
                                         A traditional IRA allows a maximum tax-deductible annual contribution of the lesser
                                     of $5,500 per individual or $11,000 per couple, or 100% of taxable compensation for the
                                     taxable year 2015. The income and capital gains earned in the account are tax deferred
                                     until the funds are withdrawn. For those covered by qualified employer plans, the tax
                                     deductibility of contributions to traditional IRAs is phased out as income increases over a
                                     specified level. It is unlikely to be tested, but when both spouses are covered by employer
                                     plans, the phase out begins at a lower level than when only one is.



                                  !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                          It is important to understand that anyone, as long as they (or, if they file a
                                                     joint return, their spouse) received eligible compensation during the year and
                                                     were not age 70½ by the end of the year, is eligible to open a traditional IRA. It
                                                     makes no difference how much they earned or if they are covered by an employ-
                                                     er plan—they can open a traditional IRA. Of course, earnings and plan coverage
                                                     will have an impact on the deductibility of contributions, but the plan may still be
                                                     opened, contributions made, and all earnings are tax deferred.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 575                                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:03:32 PM
     576        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                   20. 1. 1. 1 Compensation for IRA Purposes
                                    For purposes of contributing to an IRA, the IRS considers the following to be
                                 compensation:
                                 ■■ Wages, salaries, and tips
                                 ■■ Commissions and bonuses
                                 ■■ Self-employment income
                                 ■■ Alimony
                                 ■■ Nontaxable combat pay


                   20. 1. 1. 2 Not Compensation for IRA Purposes
                                    For purposes of contributing to an IRA, the IRS does not consider the following to be
                                 compensation:
                                 ■■ Capital gains
                                 ■■ Interest and dividend income
                                 ■■ Pension or annuity income
                                 ■■ Child support
                                 ■■ Passive income from DPPs



                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         The contribution limit for IRAs is subject to increase based on the inflation
                                                    rate. It is unlikely that the exact number will be tested, but it would make sense
                                                    to verify the current contribution limits. These limits will also apply to the total
                                                    combined contribution that might be made to a traditional IRA and a Roth IRA.


                   20. 1. 1. 3 Catch-Up Contributions for Older IRA Owners
                                     The Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2001 (EGTRRA),
                                 was the source of the legislation permitting certain individuals to make additional contri-
                                 butions to their IRAs. Individuals aged 50 and older are allowed to make catch-up con-
                                 tributions to their IRAs above the scheduled maximum annual contribution limit, which
                                 will enable them to save more for retirement. These catch-up payments can go either to a
                                 traditional IRA or to a Roth IRA.
                                                              Year        Additional Catch-Up Amount Allowed
                                                             2006+                       $1,000




                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                        The exam will want you to know that EGTRRA is responsible for the catch-
                                                    up provisions.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 576                                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:03:32 PM
                                                                      Session 20   Retirement Plans and Educational Funding Programs      577




                   20. 1. 2 ROTH IRAS
                                     The Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997 created the Roth IRA. Contributions to Roth IRAs,
                                unlike those of traditional IRAs, are not tax deductible. Regular contributions may always
                                be withdrawn tax free because they are made with nondeductible contributions.
                                     Earnings accumulated, however, may be withdrawn tax free, five years following the
                                initial deposit, provided the:
                                ■■ account holder is 59½ or older; or
                                ■■ money withdrawn is used for the first-time purchase of a principal residence (up to
                                     $10,000); or
                                ■■ account holder has died or become disabled.


                        20. 1. 2. 1 Contribution Limits
                                    Contribution limits to Roth IRAs are the same as those for traditional IRAs. For an
                                individual filing a 2015 tax return, the contribution limit is the lesser of $5,500 or 100%
                                of earned income. In addition, a married employee may contribute an additional $5,500 to
                                a nonworking or low-income spouse’s Roth IRA. Unlike a traditional IRA, contributions
                                may be made past age 70½ as long as the taxpayer has earned income.
                                    An individual may contribute to both a traditional and a Roth IRA. However, the
                                maximum combined contribution is $5,500 (or $6,500, if 50 or older).


                        20. 1. 2. 2 Eligibility Requirements
                                     Anyone with earned income is eligible to open a Roth IRA provided the person’s AGI
                                falls below specified income levels. The following numbers are effective for those filing a
                                tax return for 2015. A single person with an AGI of $116,000 or less may contribute the
                                full amount to a Roth IRA. The ability to contribute to a Roth IRA is gradually phased
                                out if the taxpayer’s AGI is between $116,000 and $131,000.
                                     For married taxpayers who file joint tax returns, the AGI limit is $183,000, with the
                                contribution phased out for couples whose income is between $183,000 and $193,000.

                                20. 1. 2. 2. 1 Adjusted gross income (AGI)
                                     Adjusted gross income, generally referred to as AGI, is computed on the bottom of the
                                first page of your Form 1040. It might help you to take a look at yours. When you do your
                                taxes, you begin by listing all of your earned income (salary, wages, bonuses) plus other
                                income such as interest and dividends, capital gains, alimony received, and profits from
                                a business you may own. From that total, you deduct certain items to arrive at the AGI.
                                Among the more testable items that are deductible are:
                                ■■ traditional IRA contribution;
                                ■■ alimony paid;
                                ■■ self-employment tax; and
                                ■■ penalties paid on early withdrawal from a savings account.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 577                                                                                                         7/15/2016 2:03:33 PM
     578        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                        Please note that although tax-exempt income from municipal securities is
                                                    shown on the Form 1040, it is NOT included in AGI.


                   20. 1. 2. 3 Roth Conversions
                                      Anyone with a traditional IRA is permitted to convert it to a Roth IRA. However,
                                 there are income tax consequences. Basically, the entire amount converted is added to the
                                 investor’s ordinary income. However, as long as the funds are transferred trustee to trustee,
                                 or, if distributed to the owner, are rolled over within 60 days, there will be no 10% early
                                 distribution tax penalty for those under age 59½. If some portion of the contributions to
                                 the traditional IRA were made with after-tax money, the IRS uses a proportionate system
                                 to determine how much is non-taxable, but that type of computation will not be tested.
                                 Conversions may also be done from any qualified employer plan such as 401(k) and 403(b)
                                 plans as well as Simple and SEP-IRAs.


                   20. 1. 2. 4 Key Points to Remember about the Roth IRA
                                 ■■ Maximum (current) contribution is $5,500 per year per individual.
                                 ■■ Contributions are not tax deductible.
                                 ■■ Distributions are tax free if taken after age 59½ and a Roth account has been open for
                                    at least five years.
                                 ■■ Distributions are not required to begin at age 70½.
                                 ■■ If due to death, disability, or first-time home purchase, the distribution is qualified and
                                    not subject to tax or the 10% penalty.
                                 ■■ A minor can be named as beneficiary.


                   20. 1. 2. 5 myRA (my Retirement Account)
                                      Please note: As of the date of printing, there has been no mention of this new program
                                 on the exam. We do not know when it will become a testable topic, but we’ve included it
                                 here not only so you will become familiar with it, but to ensure that when it does appear,
                                 our students will have the necessary information to answer the questions correctly.
                                      In 2014, the U.S. Department of the Treasury developed myRA (my Retirement
                                 Account), a retirement savings account with a new type of Roth IRA investment that
                                 makes saving for retirement simple, safe, and affordable. Individuals can open a myRA
                                 account with no start-up cost and there are no fees for the maintenance of the account.
                                 myRA has no minimum contribution requirement, so savers can contribute the amount
                                 that best fits their budget. myRA is designed for people without access to employer-spon-
                                 sored retirement savings plans. The investment in a myRA is backed by the United States
                                 Treasury and the account carries no risk of losing money.
                                      Contributions to myRA accounts are invested in a new United States Treasury secu-
                                 rity, which safely earns interest at the same variable rate as investments in the government
                                 securities fund for federal employees. This fund has had an average annual return of 3.19%
                                 over the 10-year period ending December 2014.
                                      The maximum annual contribution and income limits are the same as for any other
                                 Roth IRA.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 578                                                                                                         7/15/2016 2:03:33 PM
                                                                             Session 20   Retirement Plans and Educational Funding Programs      579




                                         Once the account value reaches $15,000 or the account has been opened 30 years
                                     (whichever comes first), savings will have to be transferred or rolled over into a private-
                                     sector Roth IRA. Savers can choose to transfer or roll over their account balance into a
                                     private-sector Roth IRA at any time prior to that if desired.


                   20. 1. 3 SIMPLIFIED EMPLOYEE PENSIONS (SEP IRAs)
                                         Simplified employee pension plans (SEPs) offer self-employed persons and small busi-
                                     nesses easy-to-administer pension plans. A SEP is a qualified plan that allows an employer
                                     to contribute money directly to an individual retirement account (IRA) set up for each
                                     employee, hence the name SEP IRA. Following is a list of the key points of which to be
                                     aware.

                                         Eligibility. To be eligible, an employee must be at least 21 years of age, have per-
                                     formed services for the employer during at least three of the last five years, and have
                                     received at least $600 (for 2015) in compensation from the employer in the current year
                                     (the annual compensation figure is indexed for inflation).

                                         Participation. SEP rules require the employer allow all eligible employees to partici-
                                     pate.

                                         Funding. A SEP allows the employer to contribute up to 25% of an employee’s sal-
                                     ary to the employee’s SEP IRA each year, up to a maximum of $53,000 per employee per
                                     year in 2015. The employer determines the level of contributions each year and must
                                     contribute the same percentage for each employee, as well as the employer.

                                         Vesting. Participants in a SEP IRA are fully vested immediately, meaning that once
                                     the money is deposited in an employee’s SEP IRA, it belongs to the employee.

                                         Taxation. Employer contributions are tax deductible to the employer. Contributions
                                     are not taxable to an employee until withdrawn, and earnings in the account accumu-
                                     late tax deferred.


                   20. 1. 4 WITHDRAWALS FROM TRADITIONAL IRAS AND SEP
                            IRAS
                                         Distributions without penalty may begin after age 59½ and must begin by April 1 of
                                     the year following the year an individual turns 70½. Distributions before age 59½ may be
                                     subject to a tax penalty and withdrawals less than the required minimum distributions
                                     (RMDs), after age 70½ may also incur tax penalties.



                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                          When is the deadline for receiving a RMD from an IRA? An account owner
                                                     must take the first RMD for the year in which the account owner turns 70½.
                                                     However, the first RMD payment can be delayed until April 1 of the year follow-
                                                     ing the year in which the account owner turns 70½. For all subsequent years,




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 579                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:03:33 PM
     580        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                                    including the year in which the first RMD was paid by April 1, the account owner
                                                    must take the RMD by December 31 of the year.

                                     Withdrawals may be made in lump sums, in varying amounts, or in regular install-
                                 ments and, to the extent withdrawals are from tax-deductible contributions, are taxable
                                 as ordinary income. When there are both deductible and nondeductible contributions,
                                 a formula is used whereby a portion of the withdrawal represents a nontaxable return of
                                 principal. Taxable withdrawals before age 59½ are also subject to a 10% early withdrawal
                                 penalty unless they are due to:
                                 ■■ death,
                                 ■■ disability,
                                 ■■ first-time purchase of a primary residence ($10,000 lifetime maximum),
                                 ■■ qualified higher education expenses for immediate family members (including grand­
                                     children, but not nieces or nephews), or
                                 ■■ certain medical expenses in excess of 10% of adjusted gross income (AGI).

                                     These exceptions also apply in the case of a nonqualified (taxable) distribution from
                                 a Roth IRA.
                                     Withdrawals must begin by April 1 of the year following the year in which the account
                                 owner reaches age 70½, and they must meet minimum Internal Revenue Code (IRC)
                                 distribution requirements or incur a 50% penalty on the amounts falling short of the mini-
                                 mum required distribution (MRD).
                                     One respect in which the Roth IRA differs from other retirement plans is that the age
                                 70½ is irrelevant. There are no required minimum distributions and, as long as the indi-
                                 vidual has earned income, contributions may be made at any age.
                                     There is one other way to tap your IRA before age 59½ without penalty—through the
                                 substantially equal periodic (SEPP) exception. The substantially equal periodic payment
                                 exception under IRS rule 72t states that if you receive IRA payments at least annually
                                 based on your life expectancy (or the joint life expectancies of you and your beneficiary),
                                 the withdrawals are not subject to the 10% penalty. The IRS has tables for determining
                                 the appropriate amount of each payment at any given age.



                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E

                                                    of:
                                                          For exam purposes, you can postpone beginning distributions until the later


                                                          ■■ April 1 of the calendar year after you turn age 70½, or

                                                          ■■ April 1 of the calendar year following your retirement (but only for
                                                             qualified plans, not an IRA).




                             *
                         EXAMPLE                         An IRA owner who reaches age 70½ on January 1, 2014, must begin with-
                                                    drawals by April 1, 2015. However, if this individual is covered by an employer-
                                                    sponsored plan, there are no RMDs from that plan (but there are from any
                                                    traditional IRAs) until after retirement.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 580                                                                                                              7/15/2016 2:03:33 PM
                                                                              Session 20   Retirement Plans and Educational Funding Programs      581




                                         All distributions are treated as taxable income in the year in which received. Annuitized
                                     IRA distributions can be made to the account owner or jointly to the owner and spouse. If
                                     the account owner dies, payments are made to a designated beneficiary.


                        20. 1. 4. 1 Nondeductible Capital Withdrawals
                                         IRA investors who contribute after-tax dollars to an IRA are not taxed on those funds
                                     when they are withdrawn from the account, but taxpayers are taxed at the ordinary income
                                     tax rate when they withdraw funds resulting from investment gains or income.




                               *✓
                              EXAMPLE




                             TA K E N O T E
                                                         A client has invested $25,000 in after-tax dollars in an IRA currently worth
                                                     $75,000. If the client were to withdraw $75,000, only $50,000 would be taxable.




                                                          The early withdrawal penalties for all IRAs are waived in the event of death
                                                     or disability.




                                  !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                         Assume questions are about traditional IRAs unless they specifically state
                                                     otherwise.



                   20. 1. 5 CHARACTERISTICS OF IRAS

                        20. 1. 5. 1 Participation in an IRA
                                        Any taxpayer younger than age 70½ who reports earned income for a given tax year
                                     may contribute to a traditional IRA, while there is no age limit on contributing to a Roth
                                     IRA. If one spouse has little or no earned income and a joint tax return is filed, a spousal
                                     IRA may be opened for that person and the contribution limits are the same as for any
                                     other IRA. Passive income from investments is not earned income.


                        20. 1. 5. 2 IRA Custodians
                                         Taxpayers can appoint IRA custodians of their choice, selecting from securities bro-
                                     ker-dealers, banks and savings institutions, insurance carriers, credit unions, and mutual
                                     fund distributors.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 581                                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:03:33 PM
     582        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                   20. 1. 5. 3 IRA Contributions
                                     For those filing a 2015 tax return, the maximum annual IRA contribution is $5,500
                                 or 100% of earned income, whichever is less, for an employed individual and $5,500 for a
                                 spousal IRA, whether or not the spouse is employed.
                                     The deductibility of an individual’s contribution is reduced or eliminated if he partici-
                                 pates in an employer-sponsored retirement plan and earns more than a specified amount.




                             *
                         EXAMPLE                         Two persons who are part of a married couple, each of whom is ineligible
                                                    to participate in a qualified plan and whose combined income is $200,000, may
                                                    contribute and deduct a total of $11,000 ($13,000 if both persons are 50 or
                                                    older). No deduction is allowed for a married couple who is eligible to participate
                                                    in a qualified plan and whose combined income is $118,000 (for 2015) or more.
                                                    Nevertheless, their contributions are permitted and all earnings are tax deferred.

                                     IRA contributions for a specific taxable year may be made anytime from January 1st of
                                 that year through the required filing date of that year’s return, (generally April 15 of the
                                 next year, unless the 15th falls on a holiday or weekend). If the individual obtains a filing
                                 extension, the deadline is still April 15.
                                     IRA owners may withdraw any or all funds in their accounts at any time, although the
                                 funds attributable to earnings and deductible contributions are subject to income tax and
                                 may be subject to early distribution penalties.



                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                         The exam may try to trick you into thinking that you can make a contribu-
                                                    tion later than April 15 if you have received an extension to file your taxes. You
                                                    can’t! You should know that an extension does not give you more time to pay
                                                    your taxes, it only extends the time that you have to file your return.


                                 20. 1. 5. 3. 1 Excess Contributions
                                     Annual IRA contributions exceeding the maximum allowed are subject to a 6% pen-
                                 alty tax if the excess is not removed by the time the taxpayer files a tax return, but no later
                                 than April 15th.


                   20. 1. 5. 4 IRA Investments
                                     Funds in an IRA account may be used to buy stocks, bonds, mutual funds, UITs, lim-
                                 ited partnerships, REITS, U.S. government securities, gold or silver coins minted by the
                                 U.S. Treasury Department (American Eagles) as well as certain platinum coins and cer-
                                 tain gold, silver, palladium, and platinum bullion, annuities, and many other investments.
                                     IRA investments should be relatively conservative and should reflect the investor’s
                                 age and risk tolerance profile. Because an IRA serves as a source of retirement funds, it is
                                 important that the account be managed for adequate long-term growth.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 582                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:03:33 PM
                                                                         Session 20   Retirement Plans and Educational Funding Programs      583




                                20. 1. 5. 4. 1 Ineligible and Inappropriate Investments
                                    Collectibles, including antiques, gems, rare coins, works of art, and stamps, are not
                                acceptable IRA investments. Life insurance contracts (such as whole life and term) may
                                not be purchased in an IRA. Tax-free municipal bonds, municipal bond funds, and munic-
                                ipal bond UITs are also generally inappropriate for an IRA (or any tax-qualified plan)
                                because their yields are typically lower than those of other similar investments, and the
                                income generated is taxable on withdrawal from the IRA.

                                20. 1. 5. 4. 2 Ineligible Investment Practices
                                    No short sales of stock, speculative option strategies, or margin account trading is per-
                                mitted in an IRA or any other retirement plan. Covered call writing is allowed.
                                                   Ineligible Investments       Ineligible Investment Practices
                                                  Collectibles                  Short sales of stock
                                                  Whole life insurance          Speculative option strategies
                                                  Term life Insurance           Margin account trading


                                20. 1. 5. 4. 3 Real Estate in an IRA (or Qualified Plan)
                                     Legally, you may invest in real estate in your IRA or as a participant in a 401(k) or
                                other qualified plan. It is not commonly something that is written into the documents, but
                                it could be. Probably the biggest reason why the provision is rarely found is because of the
                                extra care that must be taken when making a real estate investment. If done improperly,
                                serious problems with the IRS can result. If it is done as a truly hands-off investment, it is
                                unlikely that there will be an issue. However, the moment the participant derives any per-
                                sonal benefit from the property—such as staying in a condo purchased in resort area that is
                                rented out most of the year, or allowing prohibited persons to use the property—look out.



                              !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                     The IRS defines prohibited persons (people who can’t benefit from real estate
                                                held in an IRA or qualified plan) as any “member of the family.” Who are they?
                                                A member of the family includes a spouse, ancestors (parents and grandparents),
                                                children, grandchildren, great grandchildren, and spouses of children, grandchil-
                                                dren, and great grandchildren. Believe it or not, a brother or sister of an individual
                                                is not a member of the family for this purpose, but a legally adopted child of an
                                                individual is treated as a child by blood.


                        20. 1. 5. 5 Moving IRAs
                                    Individuals may move their funds and investments from one IRA to another IRA
                                through a rollover or transfer.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 583                                                                                                            7/15/2016 2:03:33 PM
     584        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                 20. 1. 5. 5. 1 Rollovers
                                      An IRA account owner may take temporary possession of the account funds to move
                                 the retirement account to another custodian. The account owner may do so only once
                                 per 12-month period, and the rollover must be completed within 60 calendar days of the
                                 funds’ withdrawal from the original plan. However, 100% of the withdrawn amount must
                                 be rolled into the new account, or the unrolled balance will be subject to income tax and,
                                 if applicable, early withdrawal penalty.
                                      A participant in a business-sponsored qualified plan may move his plan assets to a
                                 rollover IRA if he leaves the company and elects to take a lump sum distribution. If the
                                 transfer is made directly from the qualified plan to an IRA (direct transfer), the participant
                                 never takes possession of the funds. If the participant does take possession of the funds,
                                 he must complete the rollover within 60 calendar days of withdrawing the funds from the
                                 qualified plan.
                                      When the participant takes possession of the funds from a qualified plan to make a
                                 rollover, the payor of the distribution must, by law, withhold 20% of the distribution as a
                                 withholding tax. The participant must, nonetheless, roll over 100% of the plan distribu-
                                 tion, including the funds withheld, or be subject to income tax and, if applicable, early
                                 withdrawal penalty.




                             *
                         EXAMPLE                         A 50-year-old individual with $100,000 in his company retirement plan
                                                    changes employers. His pension plan may be distributed to him as a rollover in
                                                    a lump-sum payment, minus the mandatory 20% withholding of $20,000. He
                                                    must then deposit $100,000 in an IRA rollover account within 60 days. Any por-
                                                    tion not rolled over, including the $20,000 withheld, is considered a distribution
                                                    subject to ordinary income tax and early distribution penalty. If he deposits the
                                                    entire $100,000 into the IRA, he must apply on his next income tax return for a
                                                    refund of the $20,000 withheld.




                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         Rollovers by nonspouse beneficiaries of certain retirement plan distribu-
                                                    tions. Effective January 1, 2007, the Pension Protection Act of 2006 amended
                                                    the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to allow nonspouse beneficiaries to roll over
                                                    qualified retirement plan distributions to an inherited traditional IRA. Using the
                                                    term rollover may be confusing because these distributions must be made via
                                                    direct trustee-to-trustee transfer, and any checks made out to the beneficiary are
                                                    not eligible for rollover. The IRA must be set up as an inherited IRA, with mini-
                                                    mum distributions taken under the rules that apply to beneficiaries. It is possible
                                                    that this will be tested on your exam.


                                 20. 1. 5. 5. 2 Direct Rollovers from Retirement Plans to Roth IRAs
                                     Effective January 1, 2008, the Pension Protection Act of 2006 amended the Internal
                                 Revenue Code of 1986 to allow rollovers from qualified retirement plans directly to Roth
                                 IRAs, providing the client meets the requirements for converting a traditional IRA to a
                                 Roth IRA. The main requirement is that the client must report the entire amount con-
                                 verted into the Roth as ordinary income in the year of conversion (or rollover).




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 584                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:03:33 PM
                                                                        Session 20   Retirement Plans and Educational Funding Programs      585




                                20. 1. 5. 5. 3 Transfers
                                     In a direct transfer of an IRA or a qualified retirement plan, account assets are sent
                                directly from one IRA custodian to another, and the account owner never takes posses-
                                sion of the funds. The number of IRA transfers an account owner may make per year is
                                unlimited. Transfers from qualified plans to IRAs generally make better sense than roll-
                                overs because the 20% federal tax withholding does not apply to direct transfers of portfo-
                                lios and, since there is no specified time limit, you don’t have to rush to meet the 60-day
                                requirement.


                        20. 1. 5. 6 Earnings Limitations for Tax Benefits
                                     Traditional and certain SEP IRA participants may deduct contributions to their IRAs
                                from their taxable income. The deductibility limits are lowered for individuals who are
                                eligible for other qualified plans.
                                     These AGI limits increase every year and will NOT be tested. Individuals who are
                                ineligible to participate in qualified plans may deduct IRA contributions regardless of
                                income level.
                                     For those filing 2015 tax returns, the IRA deductibility phaseout range is expressed in
                                the table below.
                                                                Phaseout Range:                Phaseout Range:
                                                  Year            Single Filers                  Joint Filers
                                                 2015           $61,000–$71,000               $98,000–$118,000


                                     Income and capital gains earned from investments in any IRA account are not taxed
                                until the funds are withdrawn and, if a qualified withdrawal, are not taxed at all in the case
                                of a Roth.


                        20. 1. 5. 7 Inheriting an IRA
                                     The rules on the treatment of an inherited IRA depend on whether the beneficiary
                                is the spouse or is some other relative (or nonrelative) of the deceased. Another factor is
                                if the deceased had already begun taking RMDs. This issue is very technical, and we will
                                only cover points that might be tested.

                                20. 1. 5. 7. 1 Spousal Beneficiary
                                   When the beneficiary is the spouse, there are two choices that can be made:
                                ■■ Do a spousal rollover, meaning the amount of the inheritance is rolled over into the
                                   spouse’s own IRA
                                ■■ Continue to own the IRA as the beneficiary

                                    When doing a spousal rollover, this is treated, logically, as your own with all of the
                                normal rules applying (withdrawal ages, RMDs, and so forth). That means that if the
                                spouse is younger than 59½, any distributions prior to then will be subject to the 10%
                                penalty (unless meeting the exceptions).




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 585                                                                                                           7/15/2016 2:03:33 PM
     586        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                       If, however, the spouse elects to continue the account as the beneficiary, then there
                                 is no 10% penalty for withdrawals prior to age 59½. That’s the good news. The bad news
                                 is that RMDs (from a traditional IRA or SEP IRA) must begin when the deceased would
                                 have had to take them, a disappointment if the survivor is the younger partner. However,
                                 the RMDs will be computed based on the beneficiary’s age, not that of the deceased. Also,
                                 if it is a Roth IRA and the account hasn’t been open for at least five years, any withdrawal
                                 of earnings will be subject to income tax but not the 10% penalty.

                                 20. 1. 5. 7. 2 Nonspouse Beneficiary
                                     Things are different when the person inheriting a traditional IRA is not the
                                 spouse of the deceased. For one thing, unlike the spouse, the beneficiary will not
                                 be allowed to rollover the inherited IRA into their own IRA, this is simply not an
                                 option. In general, there are four primary options available, the fourth of which
                                 probably won’t be tested.
                                 ■■ Take the cash now: the non-spouse IRA beneficiary can withdraw 100% of the IRA
                                    account immediately. If this option is chosen, then 100% of the amount withdrawn
                                    (assuming the IRA was funded completely with pre-tax contributions) will be included
                                    in taxable income during the year of withdrawal;
                                 ■■ Cash out the IRA in 5 years: the non-spouse IRA beneficiary is allowed to withdraw
                                    all of the funds from the IRA by December 31 of the fifth year following the IRA
                                    account owner’s death. If this option is selected, then each withdrawal will be included
                                    in taxable income (once again, assuming all contributions were pre-tax) during the
                                    year the funds are withdrawn. Interestingly, the IRS does not require the payments to
                                    be made with any designated frequency. That is, you can take a portion the first year
                                    because you can use some cash, nothing for the next three years, and the balance no
                                    later than December 31 of the fifth year;
                                 ■■ Take out required minimum distributions over the beneficiary’s own life expec-
                                    tancy: non-spouse IRA beneficiaries, may be able to take RMDs over their life expec-
                                    tancy, leaving the bulk of the account to continue to grow in the tax deferred account.
                                    Each distribution taken will be included in taxable income during the year the funds
                                    are withdrawn. In order to choose this option, a separate inherited IRA account in
                                    the deceased account owner’s name for the benefit (FBO) of the beneficiary must be
                                    established and the first required minimum distribution must be taken by December 31
                                    of the year following the year of the account owner’s death. For example, the inherited
                                    IRA account would be titled “Sammy Jones, IRA (deceased 5/5/15), FBO Monique
                                    Gaillaird, beneficiary”; and
                                 ■■ Take RMDs based on the life expectancy of the oldest beneficiary: If there are mul-
                                    tiple beneficiaries and the decision is to stretch out the withdrawals, the IRS requires
                                    that the life expectancy of the oldest beneficiary be used. Obviously, this will result in
                                    a higher payout (and more tax revenue) than if the life expectancy of the youngest was
                                    an option. This can be avoided if separate inherited IRA accounts are set up for each
                                    beneficiary. In that case, RMDs are figured for each account.

                                     If the beneficiary does nothing by December 31 of the year following the year of death,
                                 the default option used by the IRA is the five-year withdrawal option.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 586                                                                                                       7/15/2016 2:03:33 PM
                                                                               Session 20   Retirement Plans and Educational Funding Programs      587




                               *
                              EXAMPLE                      Grandma Abigail died at age 82 with a traditional IRA valued at $100,000.
                                                      Her daughter Betsy, 53 years old, was the sole beneficiary. Betsy’s choices would
                                                      include
                                                           A. rolling over this IRA to her own IRA
                                                           B. taking distributions spread out over a 5-year period
                                                           C. taking the cash by December 31st and paying the 10% tax penalty
                                                               because she is under 59 ½
                                                           D. leave the IRA in the name of the deceased and continue with the RMDs
                                                          Answer: B. Among the options available to a non-spouse beneficiary is
                                                          spreading the payout over 5 years. Betsy, being a daughter and not a spouse,
                                                          could not rollover into her own IRA. Even though she is under 59½, inheri-
                                                          tors of IRAs do not incur the 10% penalty tax on withdrawals.




                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                           Just as with the spouse continuing the IRA as beneficiary, if the account were
                                                      a Roth IRA and it had not been opened for the five-year minimum, any earnings
                                                      distributed will be subject to ordinary income tax but not the 10% penalty.


                                     20. 1. 5. 7. 3 Disclaiming an IRA
                                         Believe it or not, there are actually people who inherit IRAs who don’t want the
                                     money. There are any number of reasons why (none of which will be tested), but what will
                                     be tested is what happens when the beneficiary disclaims the proceeds.
                                         A disclaimer is a refusal to accept a gift or inheritance. Perhaps it is easier to under-
                                     stand like this: If you accept an item left to you by someone who has died, you are claiming
                                     that asset; if you refuse it, you are disclaiming it. In order for the disclaimer to be effective,
                                     it must be done within nine months of death, it must be in writing, and, of course, you
                                     cannot have taken any of the money.
                                         If the named beneficiary of an IRA disclaims all or part of the inherited IRA, the dis-
                                     claimer has the effect of changing the beneficiary of the retirement plan. In general, the
                                     assets pass to the contingent beneficiary(s). What if no contingent beneficiary has been
                                     named? Unless the IRA adoption document provides for it, the person disclaiming cannot
                                     decide where the money goes—it will follow the provisions of the deceased’s will.
                                         When the proceeds pass to a single beneficiary, that person must begin RMDs, but
                                     they are based on his life expectancy. If there are multiple beneficiaries, the RMDs will
                                     either be based on the age of the oldest, or, if done properly, each of them can use their
                                     own life expectancy. This is a highly technical process and requires the use of qualified
                                     professionals to ensure that maximum benefit is achieved.




                               *
                              EXAMPLE                      Joseph Miller passes away at the age of 72 and leaves his wife, Josephine, his
                                                      traditional IRA with a value of $1,800,000. There are many other assets in the es-
                                                      tate, and Mrs. Miller decides to disclaim the entire IRA. She would like to pass on
                                                      the assets to her three grandchildren in equal shares with another share going to
                                                      her favorite charity. Assuming the IRA adoption document permits the beneficiary




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 587                                                                                                                  7/15/2016 2:03:33 PM
     588        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                                    to designate in this matter, the charity will receive $450,000 with no tax liability
                                                    at all, and the three grandchildren will each receive $450,000 on which distribu-
                                                    tions may be stretched out over their life expectancy.




                             Q
                 QUICK QUIZ 20.A                    1.   An individual younger than age 70½ may contribute to a traditional IRA
                                                         A.   only if he has earned income
                                                         B.   only if he is not covered by a pension plan through an employer
                                                         C.   only if he does not own a Keogh plan
                                                         D.   only if his adjusted gross income is between $91,000 and $118,000 if
                                                              married, and $61,000 and $71,000 if single

                                                    2.   If a 50-year-old individual wants to withdraw funds from her IRA, the with-
                                                         drawal will be taxed as
                                                         A.   ordinary income
                                                         B.   ordinary income plus a 10% penalty
                                                         C.   capital gains
                                                         D.   capital gains plus a 10% penalty

                                                    3.   Premature distribution from an IRA is generally subject to a
                                                         A.   5% penalty plus tax
                                                         B.   6% penalty plus tax
                                                         C.   10% penalty plus tax
                                                         D.   50% penalty plus tax

                                                    4.   Who of the following will NOT incur a penalty on an IRA withdrawal?
                                                         A.   Man who has just become totally disabled
                                                         B.   Woman who turned 59 a month before the withdrawal
                                                         C.   Woman, age 50, who decides on early retirement
                                                         D.   Man in his early 40s who uses the money to buy a second home

                                                    5.   Which of the following statements regarding IRAs is NOT true?
                                                         A. IRA rollovers must be completed within 60 days of receipt of the
                                                            distribution.
                                                         B. Cash value life insurance is a permissible IRA investment, but term insur-
                                                            ance is not.
                                                         C. The investor must be younger than age 70½ to open and contribute to
                                                            an IRA.
                                                         D. Distributions may begin at age 59½ and must begin by April 1 after the
                                                            year in which the investor turns 70½.

                                                    6.   SEP IRAs
                                                         A.   are used primarily by large corporations
                                                         B.   are used primarily by small businesses
                                                         C.   are set up by nonemployees
                                                         D.   cannot be set up by self-employed persons




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 588                                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:03:33 PM
                                                                              Session 20   Retirement Plans and Educational Funding Programs      589




                                                    7.   Which of the following statements regarding both traditional IRAs and Roth
                                                         IRAs is TRUE?
                                                         A.   Contributions are deductible.
                                                         B.   Withdrawals at retirement are tax free.
                                                         C.   Contribution limits are identical.
                                                         D.   To avoid penalty, distributions must begin April 1 after the year the
                                                              owner reaches age 70½.

                                                    Quick Quiz answers can be found at the end of the session.




                   20. 2             KEOGH (HR-10) PLANS
                                         Keogh plans are Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA)-qualified plans
                                     intended for self-employed individuals and owner-employees of unincorporated business
                                     concerns or professional practices. Included in the self-employed category are independent
                                     contractors, consultants, freelancers, and anyone else who files and pays self-employment
                                     Social Security taxes. The term owner-employee refers to sole proprietors.



                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                         Whenever the term qualified plan is used, it refers specifically to an employ-
                                                    er-sponsored plan, not an IRA.



                   20. 2. 1 CONTRIBUTIONS
                                         Contribution limits for a Keogh Plan are significantly higher than those for an IRA.
                                     For those filing tax returns in 2015, as much as $53,000 may be contributed on behalf of
                                     a plan participant. Those who are eligible for a Keogh Plan may also maintain an IRA. If
                                     the business has employees, they must be covered at the same contribution percentage as
                                     the owner in order for the plan to be nondiscriminatory.



                                  !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                         Only earnings from self-employment count towards determining the maxi-
                                                    mum that may be contributed. For example, if a corporate employee had a part
                                                    time consulting job, only that income, not the corporate salary, could be included
                                                    in the computation.


                        20. 2. 1. 1 Non-Tax-Deductible Contributions
                                         In addition to tax-deductible contributions, a Keogh plan participant may make non-
                                     deductible contributions. The income and capital gains accumulate tax free until the
                                     owner withdraws them. However, if the voluntary contribution results in a total contribu-
                                     tion that exceeds the annual maximum, the excess may be subject to a penalty tax.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 589                                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:03:33 PM
     590        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                   20. 2. 1. 2 Eligibility
                                    Employee participation in a Keogh plan is subject to these eligibility rules.
                                 ■■ Full-time employees are employees who receive compensation for at least 1,000 hours
                                    of work per year.
                                 ■■ Tenured employees are employees who have completed one or more years of continu-
                                    ous employment.
                                 ■■ Adult employees are employees 21 years of age and older and, just as with traditional
                                    IRAs, not in excess of 70½.


             20. 2. 2 COMPARISON OF IRAS AND KEOGH PLANS
                                      Keogh plans and IRAs are designed to encourage individuals to set aside funds for
                                 retirement income. Although both IRAs and Keoghs are tax advantaged, an IRA does not
                                 involve employer contributions and, thus, is not a plan qualified by ERISA. The principal
                                 similarities between Keoghs and IRAs are listed in the following.
                                 ■■ Tax deferral of contributions to plans. Taxes are deferred on contributions until the
                                      individual receives distributions.
                                 ■■ Tax sheltered. Investment income and capital gains are not taxed until withdrawn at
                                      which time they are subject to taxation at ordinary income rates.
                                 ■■ Contributions. Only cash may be contributed to a plan. In the event of a rollover or
                                      transfer, cash and securities from the transferring account can be deposited.
                                 ■■ Distributions. Distributions without penalty can begin as early as age 59½.
                                 ■■ Penalties for early withdrawal. The individual pays income tax on the total amount
                                      withdrawn, plus a 10% penalty. Early withdrawals without penalty are permitted in
                                      the event of death or disability.
                                 ■■ Payout options. Distributions may be in a lump sum or periodic payments.
                                 ■■ Beneficiary. Upon the planholder’s death, payments are made to a designated benefi-
                                      ciary (or beneficiaries).




                             Q
                 QUICK QUIZ 20.B                    1.   Which of the following may participate in a Keogh plan?
                                                           I. Self-employed doctor
                                                          II. Analyst who makes money giving speeches outside regular working
                                                              hours
                                                         III. Individual with a full-time job who also has income from freelancing
                                                         IV. Corporate executive who receives $5,000 in stock options from his
                                                              corporation
                                                         A.   I only
                                                         B.   I and II
                                                         C.   I, II and III
                                                         D.   I, II, III and IV




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 590                                                                                                           7/15/2016 2:03:33 PM
                                                                           Session 20   Retirement Plans and Educational Funding Programs      591




                                               2.   Which of the following are characteristics of a Keogh plan?
                                                      I.   Dividends, interest, and capital gains are tax deferred.
                                                     II.   Distributions after age 70½ are tax free.
                                                    III.   Contributions are allowed for a nonworking spouse.
                                                    IV.    Lump-sum distributions are allowed.
                                                    A.     I and II
                                                    B.     I and III
                                                    C.     I and IV
                                                    D.     II and III

                                               3.   Which would disqualify a person from participation in a Keogh plan?
                                                    A.     She turned 70 eight months ago.
                                                    B.     She has a salaried position in addition to her self-employment.
                                                    C.     Her spouse has company sponsored retirement benefits.
                                                    D.     She has an IRA.




                   20. 3     403(B) PLANS (TAX-EXEMPT ORGANIZATIONS)
                                    403(b) plans are qualified tax-deferred retirement plans for employees of public
                                school systems, (403(b) employees), and tax-exempt, nonprofit organizations such as
                                churches and charitable institutions, (501(c)(3) employees). Qualified employees may
                                exclude contributions from their taxable incomes provided they do not exceed limits.
                                    Qualified annuity plans offered under Section 403(b) of the IRC, sometimes referred
                                to as tax-sheltered annuities (TSAs), are intended to encourage retirement savings. To
                                ensure this objective, 403(b)s (like IRAs and other retirement plans) are subject to tax
                                penalties if savings are withdrawn before a participant retires.


                   20. 3. 1 TAX ADVANTAGES
                                   The following tax advantages apply to 403(b)s.
                                ■■ Contributions (which generally come from salary reduction) are excluded from a par-
                                   ticipant’s gross income.
                                ■■ Participant’s earnings accumulate tax free until distribution.


                        20. 3. 1. 1 Income Exclusion
                                    If an eligible employee elects to make annual contributions to a 403(b), those contri-
                                butions are excluded from the employee’s gross income for that year. The amount of the
                                contribution is not reported as income, resulting in lower current income taxes.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 591                                                                                                              7/15/2016 2:03:33 PM
     592        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                   20. 3. 1. 2 Tax-Deferred Accumulation
                                     Earnings in a 403(b) accumulate with no current taxation of earnings or gains and
                                 do not increase the participant’s taxable income until the dollars are withdrawn at retire-
                                 ment, usually when that person is in a lower tax bracket.


                   20. 3. 1. 3 Investments
                                     Historically, these plans were (and still are) referred to as tax sheltered annuity plans
                                 (TSAs) because annuities were the only investment option. In 1974, a provision was made
                                 to permit the purchase of mutual funds as well, although it is estimated that more than
                                 85% of all 403(b) money is invested in either fixed or variable annuities.

                                 20. 3. 1. 3. 1 Guaranteed Investment Contracts (GICs)
                                     Another option for 403(b) plans (as well as 401(k) plans), is the Guaranteed
                                 Investment Contract, almost always referred to by its initials, GIC. These are contracts
                                 issued by insurance companies that offer a guaranteed return of principal at a certain date
                                 in the future and come with a fixed rate of return that is generally a bit higher than that
                                 offered by comparable bank CDs.


             20. 3. 2 ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS
                                    To be eligible to establish a 403(b), an employer must qualify as a:
                                 ■■ public educational 403(b) institution;
                                 ■■ tax-exempt 501(c)3 organization; or
                                 ■■ church organization.


                   20. 3. 2. 1 Tax-Exempt 501(c)3
                                     As stated earlier, 501(c)3 organizations are tax-exempt entities specifically cited in
                                 the IRC as eligible to establish 403(b)s for their employees. Typical 501(c)3 organizations
                                 include:
                                 ■■ private colleges and universities;
                                 ■■ trade schools;
                                 ■■ parochial schools;
                                 ■■ zoos and museums;
                                 ■■ research and scientific foundations;
                                 ■■ religious and charitable institutions; and
                                 ■■ private hospitals and medical schools.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 592                                                                                                       7/15/2016 2:03:33 PM
                                                                       Session 20   Retirement Plans and Educational Funding Programs      593




                        20. 3. 2. 2 Public Educational 403(b)
                                    To qualify as a public educational institution, an organization must be state supported,
                                a political subdivision, or an agency of a state. Private school systems have a separate set
                                of qualifying rules. State-run educational systems include:
                                ■■ elementary schools;
                                ■■ secondary schools;
                                ■■ colleges and universities; and
                                ■■ medical schools.

                                   Individuals employed by the above school systems in the following job classifications
                                may enroll in a 403(b) plan. These include:
                                ■■ teachers and other faculty members;
                                ■■ administrators, managers, principals, supervisors, and other members of the adminis-
                                   trative staff;
                                ■■ counselors;
                                ■■ clerical staff and maintenance workers; and
                                ■■ individuals who perform services for the institution, such as doctors or nurses.


                        20. 3. 2. 3 Definition of an Employee
                                    Only employees of qualified employers are eligible to participate in a 403(b) plan.
                                Independent contractors are not eligible. It is the employer’s responsibility to determine
                                an individual’s status or definition.

                                    Eligibility. Similar to other qualified plans, all 403(b)s (whether employer contribu-
                                tion or employee elective deferral) must be made available to each full-time employee
                                who has both reached age 21 and completed one year of service.


                   20. 3. 3 PLAN REQUIREMENTS
                                   A 403(b) plan must meet two requirements.
                                ■■ The plan must be in writing and must be made through a plan instrument, a trust
                                   agreement, or both.
                                ■■ The employer must remit plan contributions to an annuity contract, a mutual fund, or
                                   another approved investment.


                   20. 3. 4 CONTRIBUTION LIMITS
                                   An employer can make contributions to a 403(b) solely on behalf of the covered
                                employee or in conjunction with an employee deferral.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 593                                                                                                          7/15/2016 2:03:33 PM
     594        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                   20. 3. 4. 1 Salary Reduction
                                     403(b) Contributions are made by having the employee take a salary reduction. As
                                 such, the money is withdrawn prior to taxation. For 2015, the maximum is $18,000 with
                                 a $6,000 catch-up provision.


                   20. 3. 4. 2 Employer Contributions
                                     Employer contributions to a 403(b) are generally subject to the same maximums that
                                 apply to all defined contribution plans: the lesser of 100% of the participant’s compensa-
                                 tion or $53,000 per year.


             20. 3. 5 TAXATION OF DISTRIBUTIONS FROM A 403(B)
                                      Distributions from a 403(b) must follow the same rules as distributions from all quali-
                                 fied plans. Because the employee’s 403(b) contributions are made with pretax dollars and
                                 all earnings were tax deferred, any distribution is subject to ordinary income tax rates in
                                 the year it is received. A normal distribution can start at age 59½. Premature distribution
                                 is subject to a 10% penalty tax unless the distribution is made for waiver of the penalty.
                                      Distributions must start by April 1 of the year following the year in which the par-
                                 ticipant reaches age 70½, or they will be subject to the excess accumulation tax. Once
                                 distributions begin, they must be paid annually by December 31 of each tax year following
                                 the initial distribution.




                             Q
                 QUICK QUIZ 20.C                    1.   A customer works as a nurse in a public school and wants to know more
                                                         about participating in the school’s TSA plan. Which of the following state-
                                                         ments is(are) TRUE?
                                                           I.   Contributions are made with before-tax dollars.
                                                          II.   He is not eligible to participate.
                                                         III.   Distributions before age 59½ are normally subject to penalty tax.
                                                         IV.    Mutual funds and CDs are available investment vehicles.
                                                         A.     I, II and III
                                                         B.     I and III
                                                         C.     I, III and IV
                                                         D.     II only

                                                    2.   A retirement plan that allows the employee to make pre-tax contributions
                                                         (within certain limits), provides for tax deferral of earnings, and is available
                                                         for employees of public school systems and certain tax-exempt organizations
                                                         is
                                                         A.     a 403(b) plan
                                                         B.     a 401(k) plan
                                                         C.     an SEP IRA
                                                         D.     a payroll deduction plan




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 594                                                                                                                  7/15/2016 2:03:34 PM
                                                                       Session 20   Retirement Plans and Educational Funding Programs      595




                                              3.   Minimum distributions from a TSA are required when a retired participant is
                                                   age
                                                   A.   59½
                                                   B.   70½
                                                   C.   85
                                                   D.   There is no minimum distribution rule applicable to TSAs.

                                              4.   The risk level of a typical guaranteed investment contract (GIC) with an
                                                   insurance company is best described as
                                                   A.   conservative
                                                   B.   moderately risky
                                                   C.   extremely risky
                                                   D.   impossible to determine




                   20. 4     CORPORATE-SPONSORED RETIREMENT PLANS
                                  In this section, we will be discussing qualified plans sponsored by corporations. These
                              include pension plans, profit-sharing plans, and the highly popular 401(k) plans.
                                  The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) is federal legisla-
                              tion that regulates the establishment and management of corporate pension or retirement
                              plans, also known as private sector plans.
                                  All qualified corporate plans must be established under a trust agreement. A trustee is
                              appointed for each plan and has a fiduciary responsibility for the plan and the beneficial
                              owners (the plan holders).


                   20. 4. 1 EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT INCOME SECURITY ACT OF
                            (ERISA)
                                 ERISA guidelines for the regulation of retirement plans include the following.
                              ■■ Eligibility. If a company offers a retirement plan, all employees must be covered if they
                                 are 21 years old or older, have one year of service, and work 1,000 hours per year.
                              ■■ Funding. Funds contributed to the plan must be segregated from other corporate
                                 assets. The plan’s trustees have a fiduciary responsibility to invest prudently and man-
                                 age funds in a way that represents the best interests of all participants.
                              ■■ Vesting. Employees must be entitled to their entire retirement benefit amounts within
                                 a certain time, even if they no longer work for the employer.
                              ■■ Communication. The retirement plan must be in writing, and employees must be kept
                                 informed of plan benefits, availability, account status, and vesting procedure no less
                                 frequently than annually.
                              ■■ Nondiscrimination. A uniformly applied formula determines employee benefits and
                                 contributions. Such a method ensures equitable and impartial treatment.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 595                                                                                                          7/15/2016 2:03:34 PM
     596        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                          ERISA is often referred to as the Pension Reform Act, but it regulates almost
                                                    all types of employee benefit plans and personal retirement plans.

                                     ERISA regulations apply to private sector (corporate) plans only. Plans for federal or
                                 state government workers (public sector plans) are not subject to ERISA.


                   20. 4. 1. 1 Fiduciary Responsibility Under ERISA
                                     Because most retirement plans were set up under trust agreements, when it became
                                 time for ERISA to address fiduciary responsibilities of plan trustees, there was a long his-
                                 tory of trust law to fall back on.
                                     It all began with the Prudent Man Rule. That legal standard was established in 1830
                                 by a Massachusetts Court decision (Harvard College v. Amory, 9 Pick. [26 Mass.] 446, 461
                                 [1830]):

                                           All that is required of a trustee to invest is, that he shall conduct himself faithfully and
                                      exercise sound discretion. He is to observe how men of prudence, discretion and intelligence
                                      manage their own affairs, not in regard to speculation, but in regard to the permanent dis-
                                      position of their funds, considering the probable income, as well as the probable safety of
                                      the capital to be invested.

                                     Although it was possible to place common stock in a trust portfolio, the emphasis
                                 seemed to be on taking defensive positions that while preserving capital, did expose the
                                 portfolio to inflation risk. It was clear that some updating was necessary.
                                     Beginning with the dynamic growth of the stock markets in the late 1960s, the invest-
                                 ment practices of fiduciaries experienced significant change. As a result, the Uniform
                                 Prudent Investor Act (UPIA) was passed in 1994 as an attempt to update trust investment
                                 laws in recognition of those many changes. One of the major influences on this legislation
                                 was the growing acceptance of modern portfolio theory. The UPIA (now used in almost
                                 every state) makes five fundamental alterations in the former criteria for prudent invest-
                                 ing. Those changes are as follows.
                                 ■■ The standard of prudence is applied to any investment as part of the total portfolio,
                                     rather than to individual investments. In this context, the term portfolio means all of
                                     the trust’s or estate’s assets.
                                 ■■ The trade-off in all investments between risk and return is identified as the fiduciary’s
                                     primary consideration.
                                 ■■ All categorical restrictions on types of investments have been removed; the trustee
                                     can invest in anything that plays an appropriate role in achieving the risk/return
                                     objectives of the trust and that meets the other requirements of prudent investing.
                                 ■■ The well-accepted requirement that fiduciaries diversify their investments has been
                                     integrated into the definition of prudent investing.
                                 ■■ The much-criticized former rule forbidding the trustee to delegate investment func-
                                     tions has been reversed. Delegation is now permitted, subject to safeguards.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 596                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:03:34 PM
                                                                     Session 20   Retirement Plans and Educational Funding Programs      597




                                  With greater numbers of trustees delegating investment decisions to investment advis-
                             ers, NASAA has determined that you must know how the UPIA affects your role. Here
                             are some thoughts that will help you on the exam.
                             ■■ A trustee must invest and manage trust assets as a prudent investor would, by consid-
                                  ering the purposes, terms, distribution requirements, and other circumstances of the
                                  trust. In satisfying this standard, the trustee must exercise reasonable care, skill, and
                                  caution.
                             ■■ A trustee’s investment and management decisions about individual assets must be
                                  evaluated not in isolation but in the context of the total portfolio and as a part of an
                                  overall investment strategy with risk and return objectives that are reasonably suited
                                  to the trust.
                             ■■ Among circumstances that a trustee must consider in investing and managing trust
                                  assets are any of the following that are relevant to the trust or its beneficiaries:
                                 —— General economic conditions
                                 —— The possible effect of inflation or deflation
                                 —— The expected tax consequences of investment decisions or strategies
                                 —— The role that each asset plays within the total portfolio, including financial assets,
                                    tangible and intangible personal property, and real property
                                 —— The expected total return from income and the appreciation of capital
                                 —— Other resources of the beneficiaries
                                 —— Needs for liquidity, regularity of income, and preservation or appreciation of capital
                                —— An asset’s special relationship or special value, if any, to the purposes of the trust or
                                    to one or more of the beneficiaries
                             ■■ A trustee who has special skills or expertise, or who is named trustee in reliance upon
                                the trustee’s representation that the trustee has special skills or expertise, has a duty
                                to use those special skills or expertise. This particular item led to the most stringent
                                standard, that of the prudent expert for one acting as a professional money manager.
                             ■■ For those without special skills or expertise, a trustee may delegate investment and
                                management functions as long as the trustee exercises reasonable care, skill, and cau-
                                tion in:
                                 —— selecting the adviser,
                                 —— establishing the scope and terms of the delegation, consistent with the purposes
                                    and terms of the trust, and
                                —— periodically reviewing the adviser’s actions, to monitor the adviser’s performance
                                    and compliance with the terms of the delegation. (However, something that can-
                                    not be delegated is the amount and timing of distributions. If it is for a trust, the
                                    trust document usually spells out those provisions and, in the case of a qualified
                                    retirement plan, the plan document accomplishes the same purpose.)
                             ■■ A trustee who complies with all of the above is not liable to the beneficiaries or the
                                trust for the decisions or actions of the adviser to whom the function was delegated.
                             ■■ In performing a delegated function, the adviser owes a duty to the trust to exercise
                                reasonable care to comply with the terms of the delegation.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 597                                                                                                        7/15/2016 2:03:34 PM
     598        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                 20. 4. 1. 1. 1 Section of ERISA
                                      Specifically, there are a number of regulations that apply directly to retirement plan
                                 fiduciaries. The details are spelled out in ERISA Section 404.
                                      Under Section 404 of ERISA, every person who acts as a fiduciary for an employee
                                 benefit plan must perform his responsibilities in accordance with the plan document speci-
                                 fications. Under ERISA, trustees cannot delegate fiduciary duties, but they can delegate
                                 investment management responsibilities to a qualified investment manager.



                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                        Although the UPIA permits the delegation of portfolio management deci-
                                                    sions, trustees cannot delegate certain fiduciary duties, such as determining the
                                                    amount and timing of distributions.

                                    Fiduciary responsibilities to the plan are explicit. With respect to the plan, fiduciaries
                                 must act:
                                 ■■ solely in the interest of plan participants and beneficiaries;
                                 ■■ for the exclusive purpose of providing benefits to participants and their beneficiaries
                                    and defraying reasonable plan expenses;
                                 ■■ with the care, skill, prudence, and diligence under the circumstances then prevailing
                                    that a prudent professional would use (known as the prudent expert rule);
                                 ■■ to diversify investments to minimize the risk of large losses, unless doing so is clearly
                                    not prudent under the circumstances; and
                                 ■■ in accordance with the governing plan documents unless they are not consistent with
                                    ERISA.

                                     Under ERISA provisions, the fiduciary must be as prudent as the average expert, not
                                 the average person. To act with care, skill, prudence, and caution, the fiduciary must also:
                                 ■■ diversify plan assets;
                                 ■■ make investment decisions under the prudent expert standard;
                                 ■■ monitor investment performance;
                                 ■■ control investment expenses; and
                                 ■■ not engage in prohibited transactions.



                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         A plan participant or beneficiary who controls his specific plan account is not
                                                    a fiduciary.




                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                          You may be required to know that transaction cost is not a determining fac-
                                                    tor in security selection. That is, when the fiduciary is deciding what security will
                                                    fit the needs of the portfolio, the amount of commission involved in the purchase
                                                    is not considered when determining if that security is an appropriate addition.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 598                                                                                                                  7/15/2016 2:03:34 PM
                                                                         Session 20   Retirement Plans and Educational Funding Programs      599




                        20. 4. 1. 2 Investment Policy Statement
                                    Although it is not specifically mandated under ERISA, it is strongly suggested that
                                each employee benefit plan have an investment policy statement, preferably in writing,
                                which serves as a guideline for the plan’s fiduciary regarding funding and investment man-
                                agement decisions. Investment policy statements address the specific needs of the plan.
                                    For employee benefit plans that use outside investment managers (such as mutual
                                funds), the fiduciary must ensure that the investment alternatives available to plan mem-
                                bers are consistent with the policy statement.
                                    A typical investment policy statement (IPS) will include:
                                ■■ investment objectives for the plan;
                                ■■ determination for meeting future cash flow needs;
                                ■■ investment philosophy including asset allocation style;
                                ■■ investment selection criteria (but not the specific securities themselves); and
                                ■■ methods for monitoring procedures and performance.



                              !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                     The IPS will NOT include specific security selection


                        20. 4. 1. 3 Prohibited Transactions by the Plan Fiduciary
                                    ERISA allows for a wide range of investments and investment practices, but a plan
                                fiduciary is strictly prohibited from any conflicts of interest, such as:
                                ■■ self-dealing, dealing with plan assets in his own interest, or for his own account;
                                ■■ acting in a transaction involving the plan on behalf of a party with interests adverse
                                    to the plan; and
                                ■■ receiving any compensation for his personal account from any party dealing with the
                                    plan in connection with plan transactions.



                              !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                     Under Section 407 of ERISA, a plan may not acquire any security or real (or
                                                 personal) property of the employer, if immediately after such acquisition the ag-
                                                 gregate fair market value of employer securities and employer real property held
                                                 by the plan exceeds 10% of the fair market value of the assets of the plan.


                                20. 4. 1. 3. 1 Party in Interest
                                     ERISA has a rather broad definition of the term party in interest, but it basically includes
                                anyone who can have an impact on an employee benefit plan, including those who render
                                advice to the plan. It is not an overstatement to say that all transactions involving par-
                                ties in interest to an ERISA-covered plan are prohibited, unless there is an exemption for
                                them.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 599                                                                                                            7/15/2016 2:03:34 PM
     600        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                         Anyone in the position of trustee over the assets of a qualified plan may not
                                                    use the plan assets to make loans to the employer, even if failure to do so could
                                                    lead to the company suffering a financial failure.


                   20. 4. 1. 4 Safe Harbor Provisions of Section 404(c)
                                      Several times, we have mentioned the requirement for the plan fiduciary to diversify
                                 the plan’s investments. There is a particular part of ERISA, Section 404(c) dealing with
                                 401(k) plans that provides a safe harbor from liability for the trustee if certain conditions
                                 are met. Under ERISA Section 404(c), a fiduciary is not liable for losses to the plan result-
                                 ing from the participant’s selection of investment in his own account, provided the par-
                                 ticipant exercised control over the investment and the plan met the detailed requirements
                                 of a Department of Labor regulation—that is, the 404(c) regulation.
                                      There are three basic conditions of this regulation:
                                 ■■ Investment selection
                                 ■■ Investment control
                                 ■■ Communicating required information

                                      Let’s look at these individually.

                                      1. Investment selection—A 404(c) plan participant must be able to:
                                      —— materially affect portfolio return potential and risk level;
                                      —— choose between at least three investment alternatives; and
                                      —— diversify his investment to minimize the risk of large losses.

                                     The practical effect of this is that it would be highly unlikely for the plan to meet the
                                 requirements by limiting the available choices to highly speculative funds, such as junk
                                 bond funds and highly aggressive growth funds.



                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                         The trustee of a 401(k) would be able to reduce his ERISA fiduciary exposure
                                                    and meet the safe harbor provisions of 404(c) if the plan offered a broad index
                                                    fund, a medium term government bond fund, and a cash equivalent fund. It isn’t
                                                    the number of funds that counts, it is the different asset classes available. For
                                                    example, if the plan offered 10 investment options, instead of 3, but they were
                                                    all of the same asset class, such as 10 equity funds, or 10 bond funds, that would
                                                    not comply with 404(c).

                                      2. Investment control—control is defined as:
                                      —— allowing employees the opportunity to exercise independent control over the assets
                                         in their account by letting them make their own choices among the investment
                                         options companies have selected (at least three);




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 600                                                                                                               7/15/2016 2:03:34 PM
                                                                       Session 20   Retirement Plans and Educational Funding Programs      601




                                    —— informing employees that they can change their investment allocations at least
                                       quarterly (a growing number of plans allow employees to make plan changes daily);
                                       and
                                    —— even though the employees maintain investment control, the plan fiduciary is not
                                       relieved of the responsibility to monitor the performance of the investment alter-
                                       natives being offered and replace them when necessary.

                                    3. Communicating required information means:
                                    —— making certain information available upon request, such as prospectuses and finan-
                                       cial statements or reports relating to the investment options (included must be
                                       information such as annual operating expenses and portfolio composition);
                                    —— a statement that the plan is intended to constitute an ERISA Section 404(c) plan
                                       and that plan fiduciaries may be relieved of liability for investment losses;
                                    —— a description of the risk and return characteristics of each of the investment alter-
                                       natives available under the plan;
                                    —— an explanation of how to give investment instructions; and
                                    —— allowing real-time access to employee accounts either by telephone or the internet.


                        20. 4. 1. 5 Summary Plan Description (SPD)
                                    Sometimes referred to as the summary plan document, one of the most important
                                documents participants are entitled to receive automatically when becoming a participant
                                of an ERISA-covered retirement plan or a beneficiary receiving benefits under such a
                                plan is a summary of the plan, called the summary plan description (SPD). Under regula-
                                tions of the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL), the plan administrator is legally obligated
                                to provide to participants, free of charge, the SPD. The summary plan description is an
                                important document that tells participants what the plan provides and how it operates.
                                It provides information on when an employee can begin to participate in the plan, how
                                service and benefits are calculated, when benefits become vested, when and in what form
                                benefits are paid, and how to file a claim for benefits. Unlike the investment policy state-
                                ment, it does not deal with the investment characteristics of the plan.


                   20. 4. 2 DEFINED CONTRIBUTION AND DEFINED BENEFIT
                            PLANS
                                     All qualified retirement plans fall into one of two categories. Those that offer no spe-
                                cific end result, but, instead focus on current, tax-deductible contributions, are defined
                                contribution plans. Those that promise a specific retirement benefit but do not specify
                                the level of current contributions are defined benefit plans. It is important to distinguish
                                between these two approaches.

                                    Defined Contribution Plans. Defined contribution plans include money-purchase
                                pension plans as well as profit-sharing plans and 401(k) plans. As with other busi-
                                ness plans (as compared to an IRA), the maximum employer contribution is currently
                                $53,000.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 601                                                                                                          7/15/2016 2:03:34 PM
     602        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                      Defined contribution plan participants’ funds accumulate until a future event, gener-
                                 ally retirement, when the funds may be withdrawn. The ultimate account value depends
                                 on the total amount contributed, along with interest and capital gains from the plan
                                 investments. In this type of plan, the plan participant assumes the investment risk. The
                                 deduction for contributions to a defined contribution plan, such as a profit sharing plan,
                                 (including 401(k)), or money purchase pension plan, cannot be more than 25% of the
                                 total payroll for the year to the eligible employees participating in the plan.

                                      Defined Benefit Plans. Defined benefit plans are designed to provide specific retire-
                                 ment benefits for participants, such as fixed monthly income. Regardless of investment
                                 performance, the promised benefit is paid under the contract terms. A defined benefit
                                 plan sponsor assumes the investment risk. The benefit is usually determined by a formula
                                 that takes into account years of service and average salary for the last five years prior to
                                 retirement. Older, highly compensated employees are likely to have the largest annual
                                 contributions on their behalf. Because of the expenses and complexities involved (the
                                 Plan’s annual return must be signed by an actuary), 3% of workers had defined benefit
                                 plans in 2011, whereas in 1979, that number was 28%.



                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         Because of the actuarial assumptions and computations, the maximum has to
                                                    be figured by an actuary.

                                     Contributory versus noncontributory plans. In a contributory plan, both the em-
                                 ployer and employee make contributions to the account. In a noncontributory plan,
                                 only the employer makes the contributions. Although it is more common (not tested)
                                 for defined contribution plans to be contributory, the term can apply to defined benefit
                                 plans as well.

                                     Employer Deductions. The employer can usually deduct, subject to limits, contri-
                                 butions made to a qualified plan. The deduction limit for those contributions to a quali-
                                 fied plan depends on the kind of plan in place.



                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                         Unlike an annuity payout or life insurance premium, contributions to a de-
                                                    fined benefit plan are not affected by the participant’s sex.




                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                         Employer contributions to defined benefit or defined contribution, (money
                                                    purchase), pension plans are mandatory. Although profit sharing plans and 401(k)
                                                    plans are technically defined contribution plans, they are not pension plans, and
                                                    employer contributions are not mandatory. In all cases, employer contributions
                                                    are 100% deductible to the corporation. There is no tax obligation to the em-
                                                    ployee until withdrawal.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 602                                                                                                              7/15/2016 2:03:34 PM
                                                                               Session 20   Retirement Plans and Educational Funding Programs      603




                   20. 4. 3 TAXATION
                                         If all of the funds were contributed by the employer, (known as a noncontributory
                                     plan), the employee’s tax basis (cost) is zero. Everything above the cost is taxed at the
                                     employee’s ordinary income rate at the time of distribution.


                   20. 4. 4 PROFIT-SHARING PLANS
                                         A profit-sharing plan established by an employer allows employees to participate in
                                     the business’s profits. The benefits may be paid directly to the employee or deferred into an
                                     account for future payment, such as retirement, or a combination of both. This discussion
                                     concerns profit-sharing plans that defer benefits toward retirement.
                                         Profit-sharing plans need not have a predetermined contribution formula. Plans that
                                     do include such a formula generally express contributions as a fixed percentage of profits.
                                     In either event, to be qualified, a profit-sharing plan must have substantial and recurring
                                     contributions, according to the Internal Revenue Code.
                                         Profit-sharing plans are popular because they offer employers the greatest amount of
                                     contribution flexibility. The ability to skip contributions during years of low profits appeals
                                     to corporations with unpredictable cash flows. They are also relatively easy to install,
                                     administer, and communicate to employees.


                   20. 4. 5 401(K) PLANS
                                         In a 401(k) plan, an employee directs an employer to deduct a percentage of the
                                     employee’s salary which will be a contribution to a retirement account. 401(k) plans per-
                                     mit an employer to make matching contributions up to a set percentage of the employee-
                                     directed contributions, making this a type of defined contribution plan. All contributions
                                     are made with pretax dollars. In effect, the employee is reducing his salary by the amount
                                     of his contribution and, therefore, his W2 will show the actual salary less the 401(k)
                                     contribution. However, even though income taxes are based on this lower amount, FICA
                                     (Social Security) taxes are levied against gross salary, not this reduced amount. In 2015,
                                     the maximum employee elective deferral is set at $18,000 with an additional “catch-up”
                                     contribution limit of $6,000.



                                  !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                          An employer sponsored 401(k) plan may be established with no required
                                                     employer or employee contributions. As we will shortly learn, there is one case
                                                     where employer contributions would be mandatory, but for exam purposes, un-
                                                     less that case is specified, it is up to the employer to determine if it will incorpo-
                                                     rate matching contributions into the plan.




                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                         When one includes the catch-up amount, the maximum combined employer
                                                     and employee contribution in a defined contribution plan increases from $53,000
                                                     to $59,000 per year.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 603                                                                                                                  7/15/2016 2:03:34 PM
     604        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                        One of the benefits of investing through a 401(k) plan is that it takes ad-
                                                    vantage of dollar cost averaging, the technique described in Session 16, which
                                                    always results in a lower cost per share in a fluctuating market.


                   20. 4. 5. 1 Hardship Withdrawals
                                     401(k) plans are permitted to make hardship withdrawals available to participants
                                 facing serious and immediate financial difficulty. There are maximum limits; the amount
                                 withdrawn is not eligible for a rollover and, therefore, is taxable as ordinary income and
                                 possibly the 10% penalty. It differs from a 401(k) loan which is not taxable as long as the
                                 repayment requirements of the IRS are met.


                   20. 4. 5. 2 401(k) Plan Loans
                                     Somewhat different from the hardship withdrawal is the ability to borrow from the
                                 401(k). This has the advantage of not being treated as a distribution so there is no tax.
                                 However, if certain IRS rules are not followed, it will be considered a premature distribu-
                                 tion and taxed as such. The IRS maximum loan amount is 50% of the participant’s vested
                                 share or $50,000, whichever is the smaller. All loans must carry what the IRS considers to
                                 be a “reasonable rate of interest.” Other than if used for a home mortgage, the loan must
                                 be paid back on a regular schedule (usually through payroll deduction) in a period not to
                                 exceed 60 months.


                   20. 4. 5. 3 Roth 401(k) Plans
                                      Roth 401(k) plans combine features of Roth IRAs and 401(k) retirement plans. Just as
                                 with a Roth IRA, these plans require after-tax contributions but allow tax-free withdraw-
                                 als, provided the retiring person is at least 59½ years old at the time of the withdrawal.
                                 Once again, paralleling the Roth IRA, the account must be at least five years old to take
                                 tax-free withdrawals.
                                      Like a regular 401(k) plan, it has employer-matching contributions; however, the
                                 employer’s match must be deposited into a regular 401(k) plan and be fully taxable upon
                                 withdrawal. Thus, the employee must have two accounts: a regular 401(k) and a Roth
                                 401(k). Employees may contribute to either account but may not transfer money between
                                 accounts once the money has been contributed.
                                      Unlike Roth IRAs, Roth 401(k) plans have no income limit restriction on who may
                                 participate. One may have both a Roth 401(k) plan and a Roth IRA, but the income lim-
                                 its would still apply to the Roth IRA. Unlike Roth IRAs, Roth 401(k) plans require with-
                                 drawals to begin no later than age 70½, following the same rules that apply to all RMDs.


                   20. 4. 5. 4 Self-Employed 401(k) Plans
                                     Self-Employed 401(k) plans, also known as Individual 401(k) or Solo 401(k) plans,
                                 are a form of retirement plan brought about by the EGTRRA of 2001. The purpose of
                                 these plans is to allow sole proprietorships to set up and contribute to a 401(k) plan. The




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 604                                                                                                            7/15/2016 2:03:34 PM
                                                                        Session 20   Retirement Plans and Educational Funding Programs      605




                                administrator of the plan may be the businessowner or spouse. To contribute to this plan,
                                there can be no other full-time employees other than the businessowner and spouse.
                                    Because the Self-Employed 401(k) plan allows for tax-deferred contributions, the rules
                                surrounding withdrawals are the same as those for other tax-deferred retirement plans. For
                                example, withdrawals made before age 59½ receive a 10% penalty, and withdrawals must
                                commence by age 70½ and are fully taxable as income. Because the covered individual is
                                both the owner and an employee, this plan generally offers the highest possible contribu-
                                tion level of any defined contribution plan.


                        20. 4. 5. 5 Top-Heavy Plan
                                    Because all qualified plans must be nondiscriminatory, the IRS has defined a top-
                                heavy 401(k) plan as one in which a disproportionate amount of the benefit goes to key
                                employees. The plan must be tested on an annual basis to ensure that it complies with the
                                regulations. On the exam, you may be asked to define a top-heavy plan and will have to
                                choose between key employees and highly compensated employees. The easiest way to
                                remember is to match the (k) in 401(k) with the word key.


                        20. 4. 5. 6 Safe Harbor 401(k) Plan
                                    Several years after the top-heavy rules were written, relief was offered in the form of
                                the safe harbor 401(k). A plan does not have to undergo annual top-heavy testing if set
                                up properly.
                                    There are two basic choices for setting up a safe harbor plan. The employer will either
                                match employee contributions or use a nonelective formula (the employees don’t have to
                                contribute) of eligible employee compensation to satisfy IRS requirements. If a matching
                                formula is elected:
                                ■■ the base formula is 100% of elective deferrals up to 3% of compensation and then
                                    50% of elective deferrals on the next 2% of compensation. This means the maximum
                                    match is 4% (100% × 3% + 50% × 2% = 3% + 1%); or
                                ■■ the employer may elect the nonelective formula (minimum of 3%) of all eligible par-
                                    ticipants’ compensation. Under this formula, all eligible employees would receive this
                                    nonelective contribution whether making salary reduction contributions or not.

                                    In either case, all employer contributions are immediately vested.


                        20. 4. 5. 7 Net Unrealized Appreciation (NUA)
                                     Many employers enable employees to buy the stock or bonds of their company inside
                                the 401(k) or other retirement plans. The distribution of employer securities is some-
                                times eligible for special treatment under the tax code. Those receiving a distribution of
                                employer securities from a qualified retirement plan may be able to defer the tax on the
                                net unrealized appreciation (NUA) in the securities. The NUA is the net increase in the
                                securities’ value while they were in the plan’s trust. If taken as a lump-sum distribution, the
                                participant has the option of deferring tax on all of the NUA. A lump sum distribution is
                                defined as the disbursement of the entire vested account balance within one taxable year
                                as a result of a triggering event. Triggering events are limited to:
                                ■■ separation from service,




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 605                                                                                                           7/15/2016 2:03:34 PM
     606        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                 ■■ attainment of age 59½, or
                                 ■■ death.

                                      In order to qualify for the NUA treatment, an employee must complete the entire dis-
                                 tribution within the same calendar year. How does this work? Normally, the entire value
                                 of a distribution from a qualified plan is taxed as ordinary income. Even if rolled over into
                                 an IAR, when ultimately distributed, the entire value will be taxed as ordinary income.
                                 However, when using the NUA approach, only the original cost basis (as supplied by the
                                 employer) is subject to tax. Any unrealized appreciation will be taxed as long-term capi-
                                 tal gain, whenever sold. And, to make things even sweeter, as long as held more than 12
                                 months, any further appreciation is taxed as long-term capital gain. Let’s take a look at an
                                 example.




                             *
                         EXAMPLE                         George has been an employee of KAPCO Manufacturing Company for
                                                    20 years. He is turning 65 this year and plans to retire. In his 401(k) plan, he
                                                    has assets of $600,000 of which $250,000 is KAPCO stock with a cost basis of
                                                    $100,000. At retirement, George should transfer the $350,000 that is not KAP-
                                                    CO stock into an IRA. That will defer taxes on that money. Then, the $250,000
                                                    of KAPCO stock should be transferred into a regular, taxable brokerage account.
                                                    In the year of retirement, George will have to report the $100,000 cost basis as
                                                    ordinary income. However, the $150,000 in unrealized appreciation will receive
                                                    the more favorable long-term capital gains rate when sold. If George holds on to
                                                    the stock for another 5 years and it appreciates by another $50,000, then, upon
                                                    sale, the entire $200,000 of gain is considered long-term.



             20. 4. 6 SECTION 457 PLANS
                                     A Section 457(b) plan is a deferred compensation plan set up under Section 457 of
                                 the tax code that may be used by employees of a state, political subdivision of a state, and
                                 any agency or instrumentality of a state. This plan may also be offered to employees of
                                 certain tax-exempt organizations (hospitals, charitable organizations, unions, and so forth,
                                 but NOT churches).
                                     In a 457 plan, employees can defer compensation, and the amount deferred is not
                                 reportable for tax purposes. Therefore, the employee receives a deduction each year for
                                 the amount deferred.
                                     There are several important facts to know about 457 plans.
                                 ■■ These plans are exempt from ERISA—nongovernmental plans must be un-funded to
                                     qualify for tax benefits while government plans must be funded.
                                 ■■ These plans are generally not required to follow the nondiscrimination rules of other
                                     retirement plans.
                                 ■■ Plans for tax-exempt organizations are limited to covering only highly compensated
                                     employees, while any employee (or even independent contractor) of a governmental
                                     entity may participate.
                                 ■■ Distributions from 457(b) plans of nongovernmental tax-exempt employees may not
                                     be rolled over into an IRA, but there is no 10% penalty for early withdrawal.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 606                                                                                                             7/15/2016 2:03:34 PM
                                                                             Session 20   Retirement Plans and Educational Funding Programs      607




                                     ■■ It is possible to maintain both a 457 and 403(b) and make maximum contributions to
                                        both ($36,000 in 2015).As a result, those 50 or older, using the “catch-up” provision
                                        in each plan, could actually contribute as much as $48,000.
                                     ■■ Unlike 401(k) plans, loans from a 457(b) plan are available in governmental plans
                                        only, and only if the entity decides to include that feature in the plan. Furthermore,
                                        the requirements for “unforeseen emergency” withdrawals are much stricter than for
                                        hardship withdrawals under a 401(k) plan.


                   20. 4. 7 SIMPLE PLANS
                                         Savings Incentive Match Plans for Employees (SIMPLEs) are retirement plans for a
                                     business with 100 or fewer employees who earned $5,000 or more during the preceding
                                     calendar year. In addition, the business cannot currently have another retirement plan in
                                     place.
                                         The plans are easy to set up and inexpensive to administer. The employee’s contri-
                                     bution, up to $12,500 with a $3,000 catch-up provision (2015), is pretax and may be
                                     matched by the employer using either of the following two options.
                                     ■■ A 2% nonelective employer contribution, where employees eligible to participate
                                         receive an employer contribution equal to 2% of their compensation (limited to
                                         $265,000 per year for 2015 and subject to cost-of-living adjustments for later years),
                                         regardless of whether they make their own contributions.
                                     ■■ A dollar-for-dollar match up to 3% of compensation, where only the participating
                                         employees who have elected to make contributions will receive an employer contribu-
                                         tion (i.e., the matching contribution).

                                        For small business looking for a way to have an inexpensive retirement plan for their
                                     employees, the SIMPLE is the way to go.



                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                         We’ve never heard of this being on the test, but, just in case, you might
                                                    need to know about a penalty tax levied under these plans that is unique. Unless
                                                    qualifying for an exception from the 10% penalty tax, such as that offered with
                                                    traditional IRAs (over 59½, death or disability, etc.), withdrawals from a SIMPLE
                                                    IRA within the first two years after beginning participation in the plan are subject
                                                    to a penalty tax of 25%.




                                Q
                       QUICK QUIZ 20.D              1.   Regulations regarding how contributions are made to tax-qualified plans
                                                         relate to which of the following ERISA requirements?
                                                         A.   Vesting
                                                         B.   Funding
                                                         C.   Nondiscrimination
                                                         D.   Reporting and disclosure




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 607                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:03:34 PM
     608        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                                    2.   Which of the following determines the amount paid into a defined contribu-
                                                         tion plan?
                                                         A.   ERISA-defined contribution requirements
                                                         B.   Trust agreement
                                                         C.   Employer’s age
                                                         D.   Employee’s retirement age

                                                    3.   Which of the following would best describe a prudent investor?
                                                         A.   A person in a fiduciary capacity who invests in a prudent manner
                                                         B.   A trustee who invests with reasonable care, skill, and caution
                                                         C.   An investment adviser representative handling a discretionary account
                                                         D.   The custodian for a minor under the Uniform Transfers to Minors Act

                                                    4.   To comply with the safe harbor requirements of Section 404(c) of ERISA, the
                                                         trustee of a 401(k) plan must
                                                           I. offer plan participants at least 10 different investment alternatives
                                                          II. allow plan participants to exercise control over their investments
                                                         III. allow plan participants to change their investment options no less fre-
                                                              quently than monthly
                                                         IV. provide plan participants with information relating to the risks and per-
                                                              formance of each investment alternative offered
                                                         A.   I and III
                                                         B.   I and IV
                                                         C.   II and III
                                                         D.   II and IV

                                                    5.   Susan participates in a Section 401(k) plan at work that includes loan provi-
                                                         sions. Susan has recently enrolled in college and has inquired about the pos-
                                                         sible consequences of borrowing from the plan to help pay for her education.
                                                         As her financial planner, what is your advice to her?
                                                         A. The loan will statutorily be treated as a taxable distribution from the
                                                            plan.
                                                         B. The loan must be repayable within 5 years at a reasonable rate of
                                                            interest.
                                                         C. The 401(k) plan needs to be rewritten as loans are only available from
                                                            qualified plans.
                                                         D. The loan is not being made for reasons of an unforeseeable emergency
                                                            and therefore is not possible.



             20. 5           SUMMARY OF DISTRIBUTION RULES FROM BOTH
                             QUALIFIED PLANS AND IRAS
                                     Distributions from traditional IRAs must generally begin no later than April 1 of the
                                 year following the year in which the taxpayer attains age 70½.
                                     In applying distribution rules, all traditional IRAs and SEPs are treated as a single
                                 account and must be liquidated at least to the extent of percentages specified on IRS
                                 tables. Qualified plans, however, are not aggregated; distributions from one qualified plan
                                 are not affected by distributions from another.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 608                                                                                                               7/15/2016 2:03:34 PM
                                                                               Session 20   Retirement Plans and Educational Funding Programs      609




                   20. 5. 1 LIFETIME DISTRIBUTIONS

                        20. 5. 1. 1 Early Withdrawal Penalties
                                         In general, withdrawals from both IRAs and qualified plans are taxed as ordinary
                                     income. However, withdrawals from such arrangements occurring before owners turn age
                                     59½ are subject to an additional 10% premature withdrawal penalty. Withdrawals from
                                     both escape the penalty when they are made on account of death or total disability, cor-
                                     recting excess contributions, or as a series of substantially equal payments over the life of
                                     the plan participant and beneficiary, if applicable. Only in the case of a qualified plan is the
                                     penalty avoided by using a qualified domestic relations order (QDRO).



                                  !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                           Although pre-59½ withdrawals from IRAs for education and first-time home
                                                      purchase escape the early withdrawal penalty, withdrawals from qualified plans
                                                      for those purposes do not.
                                                         The 10% tax will not apply on withdrawals from either of these before age
                                                      59½, however, if:
                                                          ■■ the distribution is made to a beneficiary on or after the death of the
                                                             employee/individual;

                                                          ■■ the distribution is made because the employee/individual acquires a
                                                             qualifying disability; or

                                                          ■■ the distribution is made as a part of a series of substantially equal
                                                             periodic payments under IRS Rule 72t, beginning after separation from
                                                             service with the employer maintaining the plan before the payments
                                                             begin,

                                                          ■■ and made at least annually for the life or life expectancy of the
                                                             employee/individual or the joint lives or life expectancies of the
                                                             employee/individual and his designated beneficiary. (Excepting in the
                                                             case of death or disability, the payments under this exception must
                                                             continue for at least five years or until the employee/individual reaches
                                                             age 59½, whichever is the longer period.)




                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                          After a person begins taking distributions from an IRA under Rule 72t, contri-
                                                      butions , asset transfers, or rollovers are not permitted while receiving payments.


                        20. 5. 1. 2 Penalty Tax on Failure to Make Required Minimum
                                    Distributions
                                         As with IRAs, other than a Roth IRA, failure to distribute the required amount from
                                     qualified plans generates a 50% penalty tax on the shortfall in addition to ordinary income




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 609                                                                                                                  7/15/2016 2:03:34 PM
     610        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                 taxation. However, as mentioned earlier, and of particular importance as employees are
                                 working to much later ages than in previous generations, there are no RMDs from a quali-
                                 fied plan while still employed by the sponsor of that plan, regardless of your age.


                   20. 5. 1. 3 Withholding on Eligible Rollover Distributions from
                               Qualified Plans
                                     Distributions paid to an employee are subjected to a mandatory federal withholding of
                                 20% if the distribution exceeds $200 for the year and is an eligible rollover distribution.
                                 Distributions that are not eligible rollover distributions are not subjected to the manda-
                                 tory 20% withholding.



                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                         An employee may avoid the 20% withholding by having the distribution
                                                    processed as a direct rollover (also referred to as a transfer) to an eligible retire-
                                                    ment plan. In a direct rollover the distribution check is made payable to the
                                                    trustee or custodian of the receiving retirement plan.

                                                   10% Early Distribution Penalty Exceptions by Plan Types
                                                                                        Qualified         401(k) and       Traditional,
                                                                                     Pension, Profit-      SIMPLE         Roth, and SEP
                                                                                      Sharing, and          Plans             IRAs
                                                                                      TSAs (403(b)
                                                                                         Plans)
                                   Death                                                     X                  X                X
                                   Disability                                                X                  X                X
                                   Separation from service after age 55                      X                  X
                                   Certain medical expenses                                  X                  X                X
                                   QDROs                                                     X                  X
                                   To reduce excess contributions or deferrals               X                  X                X
                                   As substantially equal payments over life                 X                  X                X
                                   First-time home purchase                                                                      X
                                   Higher education expenses                                                                     X
                                   Health insurance premiums while                                                               X
                                   unemployed




                             ✓
                        TA K E N O T E
                                                       In an example of IRS logic, they have this statement regarding avoiding the
                                                    10% tax penalty if withdrawals are made prior to age 59 ½:
                                                        “Even if you receive a distribution before you are age 59 1/2, you may not
                                                    have to pay the 10% additional tax if you are in one of the following situations.”
                                                    The first situation they list is:




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 610                                                                                                                   7/15/2016 2:03:35 PM
                                                                        Session 20   Retirement Plans and Educational Funding Programs      611




                                                   “You have unreimbursed medical expenses that are more than 10% (or
                                               7.5% if you or your spouse was born before January 2, 1950) of your adjusted
                                               gross income.” This is in the 2015 Edition of the IRS rules. So tell me, if you were
                                               born before 1950, aren’t you over 59 ½ today? That means there wouldn’t be a
                                               premature distribution penalty in any case.




                             Q
                       QUICK QUIZ 20.E         True or False?

                                               ____     1.	A defined contribution pension plan is a qualified plan that specifies
                                                            an employer’s annual funding.

                                               ____     2.	The movement of funds from one retirement plan to another, gener-
                                                            ally within a specified period, is called a rollover.

                                               ____     3.	In a defined benefit plan, all employees receive the same benefits at
                                                            retirement.

                                               ____     4. In a safe harbor 401(k) plan, all employees are immediately vested.

                                               ____     5.	In a defined benefit plan, high income employees near retirement
                                                            may receive much larger contributions than younger employees with
                                                            the same salary.

                                               ____     6.	In a top-heavy 401(k) plan, a disproportionate benefit accrues to
                                                            eligible highly compensated employees.



                   20. 5. 2 SUMMARY OF ROLLOVER AND TRANSFER RULES
                                   Following is a summary of the rules applying to moving money from one tax-deferred
                               account to another. Included is a Test Topic Alert which refers to a recent IRS change that
                               will probably begin appearing on the exam before the end of 2015. Once we are aware of
                               that, we’ll post it to the Exam-tips and Content Updates and our questions will reflect the
                               change. Here are the three key points:

                                   1.	
                                      Direct rollover – In the event the plan calls for a distribution upon separation
                                      from service, a request can be made to the plan administrator to send the payment
                                      directly to another retirement plan or to an IRA. In some cases, the administrator
                                      may pay the distribution directly to the employee in the form of a check made out
                                      to the new account. In either case, there are no taxes withheld from the amount
                                      transferred and no income is reported for tax purposes.

                                   2.	
                                      Trustee-to-trustee transfer – An investor who wishes to change trustees for an
                                      IRA, such as moving the account to another firm or mutual fund group, upon
                                      request, the trustee or custodian for the “old” IRA will make the payment directly
                                      to the trustee of the “new” IRA. In some cases, the IRA distribution may be made
                                      to the trustees of an employer sponsored plan in the fashion. In either case, there
                                      are no taxes withheld from the amount transferred and no income is reported for
                                      tax purposes.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 611                                                                                                           7/15/2016 2:03:35 PM
     612        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                      3.	
                                         60-day rollover – In the event the distribution from an IRA or qualified employer
                                         plan is paid directly to the participant, there is the option to deposit all or any part
                                         of it to another IRA or qualified plan within 60 calendar days. However, there will
                                         be a 20% withholding tax on this distribution. That means, in order to avoid any
                                         tax, the individual will have to find other funds to deposit to cover the withheld
                                         amount. Any portion of the distribution that is not rolled over will be subject to
                                         tax and, if under age 59½, will be subject to the 10% (unless qualifying for one of
                                         the exemptions from the penalty tax).



                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                         Effective January 1, 2015, the IRS has tightened the “once per year” rule a
                                                    bit. You can make only one rollover from an IRA to another (or the same) IRA in
                                                    any 365 day period (not per calendar year), regardless of the number of IRAs you
                                                    own. The limit will apply by aggregating all of an individual’s IRAs, including SEP
                                                    and SIMPLE IRAs as well as traditional and Roth IRAs, effectively treating them as
                                                    one IRA for purposes of the limit. However:
                                                         ■■ Trustee-to-trustee transfers between IRAs are not limited

                                                         ■■ Conversions from traditional to Roth IRAs are not limited




             20. 6           NONQUALIFIED CORPORATE RETIREMENT PLANS
                                     A nonqualified plan does not allow the employer a current tax deduction for con-
                                 tributions. Instead, the employer receives the tax deduction when the money is actually
                                 paid out to the employee. However, depending on how the plan is structured, earnings
                                 may accumulate on a tax-deferred basis. A nonqualified plan need not comply with non-
                                 discrimination rules that apply to qualified plans. The employer can make nonqualified
                                 benefits available to key employees and exclude others.
                                     Nonqualified plans are not subject to the same reporting and disclosure requirements
                                 as qualified plans. However, nonqualified plans still must be in writing and communicated
                                 to the plan participants. Sponsors of nonqualified plans are fiduciaries.


             20. 6. 1 TAXATION
                                      The corporation cannot deduct nonqualified plan contributions made on behalf of
                                 participants until paid to the participant. However, if the nonqualified plan is properly
                                 designed, contributions are not taxable to the employee until the benefit is received.
                                      Contributions to nonqualified plans that have already been taxed make up the inves-
                                 tor’s cost base. When the investor withdraws money from the nonqualified plan, the cost
                                 base is not taxed. However, earnings are taxed when withdrawn.


             20. 6. 2 TYPES OF PLANS

                                     Two types of nonqualified plans are payroll deduction plans and deferred compensa-
                                 tion plans.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 612                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:03:35 PM
                                                                         Session 20   Retirement Plans and Educational Funding Programs      613




                        20. 6. 2. 1   Payroll Deduction Plans

                                      A payroll deduction plan involves a deduction from an employee’s check on a weekly,
                                  monthly, or quarterly basis as authorized by the employee. The money is deducted after
                                  taxes are paid and may be invested in investment vehicles at the employee’s option.


                        20. 6. 2. 2   Deferred Compensation Plans

                                     A nonqualified deferred compensation (NQDC) plan is a contractual agreement
                                  between a firm and an employee in which the employee agrees to defer receipt of current
                                  compensation in favor of a payout at retirement. The agreement underlying a deferred
                                  compensation plan usually includes the following:
                                  ■■ Conditions and circumstances under which some or all of the benefits may be for-
                                     feited, such as if the employee moves to a competing firm
                                  ■■ A statement to the effect that the employee is not entitled to any claim against the
                                     employer’s assets until retirement, death, or disability
                                  ■■ A disclaimer that the agreement may be void if the firm suffers a business failure or
                                     bankruptcy

                                      Company directors are not considered employees for the purpose of establishing eli-
                                  gibility for a deferred compensation plan, and as a result, may not participate in the plan.



                               !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                      Because the employer can discriminate, one of the most common uses of
                                                  deferred compensation plans is to provide benefits to retain key employees.


                                  20. 6. 2. 2. 1 Business Failure
                                       Generally, an employee enjoys no benefits from a deferred compensation plan until
                                  retirement. If the business fails, the employee is a general creditor of the business with no
                                  guarantee that he will receive the deferred payment.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 613                                                                                                            7/15/2016 2:03:35 PM
     614        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                 20. 6. 2. 2. 2 Funding
                                     Deferred compensation plans may be unfunded, in which case the deferred compensa-
                                 tion is paid from the firm’s operating assets. If the plan is funded, the advantages of tax
                                 deferral are lost. Many NQDC plans are informally funded through life insurance or trust
                                 arrangements.

                                                               Qualified Plans vs. Nonqualified Plans

                                                        Qualified Plans                         Nonqualified Plans
                                            Contributions tax deductible              Contributions not tax deductible
                                            Plan approved by the IRS                  Plan does not need IRS approval
                                            Plan cannot discriminate                  Plan can discriminate
                                            Subject to ERISA                          Not subject to ERISA
                                            Tax on accumulation is deferred           Tax on accumulation may be deferred
                                            All withdrawals taxed                     Excess over cost base taxed
                                            Plan is a trust                           Plan is not a trust




                             Q
                  QUICK QUIZ 20.F                   Matching
                                                         A.   Defined benefit plan
                                                         B.   Keogh plan
                                                         C.   Spousal IRA contributions
                                                         D.   Payroll deduction plan

                                                    ____ 1.	Nonqualified plan in which an employee authorizes regular reductions
                                                             from his salary

                                                    ____ 2. Specifies the monthly amount an employee will receive at retirement

                                                    ____ 3.	Qualified retirement plan for self-employed individuals and
                                                             unincorporated businesses

                                                    ____ 4. IRA contributions made for a nonworking spouse




             20. 7           EDUCATIONAL SAVINGS PROGRAMS
                                     The examination will deal with two different types of programs designed to offer tax
                                 benefits when saving for education. We will begin with the Coverdell ESA and then move
                                 on to the Section 529 Plan.


             20. 7. 1 COVERDELL EDUCATION SAVINGS ACCOUNTS
                                    The Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997 also created Education IRAs with a $500 annual
                                 contribution limit. In 2002, these were renamed Coverdell ESAs. ESAs allow after-tax




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 614                                                                                                          7/15/2016 2:03:35 PM
                                                                                 Session 20   Retirement Plans and Educational Funding Programs      615




                                     contributions for student beneficiaries. Contributions must be made in cash and must be
                                     made on or before the date on which the beneficiary attains age 18 unless the beneficiary
                                     is a special needs beneficiary—an individual who because of a physical, mental, or emo-
                                     tional condition requires additional time to complete their education. Coverdell ESAs
                                     fund educational expenses of a designated beneficiary by allowing after-tax (nondeduct-
                                     ible) contributions to accumulate on a tax-deferred basis.
                                          When distributions are made from a Coverdell ESA, the earnings portion of the dis-
                                     tribution is excluded from income when it is used to pay qualified education expenses.
                                     Withdrawn earnings are taxed and subject to a 10% tax penalty when they are not used to
                                     pay qualified education expenses.



                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                            If the money is not used by a beneficiary’s 30th birthday (except for a special
                                                        needs beneficiary), it must be distributed and the earnings are subject to ordinary
                                                        income taxes and a 10% penalty.

                                         Under EGTRRA, the maximum annual contribution limit to a Coverdell ESA was
                                     increased to $2,000 per beneficiary with a “sunset” provision in 2011 whereby the level
                                     would be reduced to the original $500 level. In 2013, Congress made the $2,000 limit
                                     “permanent”. In addition to qualified higher education expenses (postsecondary educa-
                                     tion), the account can also be used for elementary and secondary education expenses and
                                     for public, private, or religious schools.
                                         The contribution to a Coverdell ESA may be limited depending on the amount of
                                     AGI and filing status.
                                                            Allowable Contribution                         Single Filers     Joint Filers
                                              Full contribution of $2,000 at AGI of and below             $ 95,000          $190,000
                                              Partial phaseout begins at                                  $ 95,001          $190,001
                                              No contributions may be made at AGI of and above            $110,000          $220,000




                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                            There is nothing to prevent more than one individual from contributing to a
                                                        Coverdell ESA; the annual limit applies to each beneficiary. Parents and grandpar-
                                                        ents can contribute to a single account, as long as the $2,000 limit per child is not
                                                        exceeded in any given year.

                                        Other changes made by the EGTRRA of 2001 include:
                                     ■■ provisions that allow contributions to continue past age 18 for beneficiaries with spe-
                                        cial needs;
                                     ■■ extending the period during which corrective withdrawals can be made to avoid the
                                        early distribution and excess contribution penalties; and
                                     ■■ allowing Coverdell ESA contributions, for any year, to be made up to April 15 of the
                                        following year (just like contributions to your IRA).




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 615                                                                                                                    7/15/2016 2:03:35 PM
     616        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                         Here are some key test points about Coverdell ESAs:
                                                         ■■ Contributions can be made by parents and other adults; the total for one
                                                            child is still $2,000.

                                                         ■■ Contribution limit is $2,000 per year per child until the child’s 18th
                                                            birthday.

                                                         ■■ Contributions are not tax deductible, but all earnings are tax deferred.

                                                         ■■ Distributions are tax free if they are taken before age 30 and used for
                                                            eligible education expenses.

                                                         ■■ If the accumulated value in the account is not used by age 30, the funds
                                                            must be distributed and subject to income tax and a 10% penalty on the
                                                            earnings or rolled over into a different Coverdell ESA for another family
                                                            member. Their definition of family is extremely broad and, in addition to
                                                            the obvious, includes cousins, aunts and uncles, and even in-laws.



             20. 7. 2 SECTION 529 PLANS
                                     Section 529 plans, legally known as qualified tuition programs (QTPs), are state-oper-
                                 ated investment plans that give families a way to save money for college with substantial
                                 tax benefits. There are two basic types of 529 plans: prepaid tuition plans and college sav-
                                 ings plans.


                   20. 7. 2. 1 Prepaid Tuition Plans
                                     Prepaid tuition plans generally allow college savers to prepay for tuition at participat-
                                 ing colleges and universities, and in some cases, room and board can be prepaid as well.
                                 Most prepaid tuition plans are sponsored by state governments and have residency require-
                                 ments. The basic concept is that if you pay for the tuition at today’s rates, the child will be
                                 able to attend in the future, regardless of how much higher the tuition is.


                   20. 7. 2. 2 College Savings Plans
                                     College savings plans generally permit the contributor, known as the account holder,
                                 to establish an account for a student (the beneficiary) for the purpose of paying the benefi-
                                 ciary’s qualified college expenses. The typical plan offers a number of investment options
                                 including stock mutual funds, bond mutual funds, and money market funds. A very popu-
                                 lar option is the age-based portfolio that automatically shifts toward more conservative
                                 investments as the beneficiary gets closer to college age. Withdrawals from college savings
                                 plans can generally be used at any college or university regardless of the state carrying the
                                 plan or the state of residence.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 616                                                                                                              7/15/2016 2:03:35 PM
                                                                            Session 20   Retirement Plans and Educational Funding Programs      617




                        20. 7. 2. 3 Differences Between the Two QTPs
                                    The following chart outlines some of the major differences between pre-paid tuition
                                plans and college savings plans.
                                                  Prepaid Tuition Plan                            College Savings Plan
                                      Locks in tuition prices at eligible public and     No lock on college costs.
                                      private colleges and universities.
                                      All plans cover tuition and mandatory fees         Covers all qualified higher education
                                      only. Some plans allow families to purchase        expenses, including the following:
                                      a room and board option or use excess              ■■ Tuition
                                      tuition credits for other qualified expenses.      ■■ Room and board
                                                                                         ■■ Mandatory fees
                                                                                         ■■ Books, computers (if required)
                                      Most plans set lump sum and installment            Many plans have contribution limits in
                                      payments prior to purchase based on age            excess of $250,000.
                                      of beneficiary and number of years of col-
                                      lege tuition purchased.
                                      Many state plans guaranteed or backed by           No state guarantee. Most investment
                                      state.                                             options are subject to market risk. Your
                                                                                         investment may make no profit or even
                                                                                         decline in value.
                                      Most plans have age/grade limit for ben-           No age limits. Open to adults and
                                      eficiary.                                          children.
                                      Most state plans require either owner or           No residency requirement. However,
                                      beneficiary of plan to be a state resident.        nonresidents may only be able to
                                                                                         purchase some plans through financial
                                                                                         advisers or brokers.
                                      Most plans have limited enrollment period.         Enrollment open all year.
                                      Source: Smart Saving for College, FINRA     ®




                        20. 7. 2. 4 Tax Treatment of 529 Plans
                                    A major factor in investing in a 529 plan is tax benefits. Although contributions are
                                made with after-tax money, earnings in 529 plans are not subject to federal tax and, in most
                                cases, state tax, so long as withdrawals are for eligible college expenses, such as tuition and
                                room and board and even a computer.
                                    However, money representing earnings that is withdrawn from a 529 plan for ineli-
                                gible expenses will be subject to income tax and an additional 10% federal tax penalty.
                                Unlike the IRS, many states offer deductions or credits against state income tax for invest-
                                ing in a 529 plan. But eligibility for these benefits is generally limited to participants in a
                                529 plan sponsored by your state of residence.


                        20. 7. 2. 5 Withdrawal Restrictions
                                    Both plans place restrictions on withdrawals. With limited exceptions, you can only
                                withdraw money that you invest in a 529 plan for eligible college expenses without incur-
                                ring taxes and penalties. However, you can rollover any unused funds to a member of the




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 617                                                                                                               7/15/2016 2:03:35 PM
     618        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                 beneficiary’s family without incurring any tax liability as long as the rollover is completed
                                 within 60 days of the distribution. Immediate family includes the following:
                                 ■■ Son, daughter, stepchild, foster child, adopted child, or a descendant of any of them
                                 ■■ Brother, sister, stepbrother, or stepsister
                                 ■■ Father or mother or ancestor of either
                                 ■■ Stepfather or stepmother
                                 ■■ Son or daughter of a brother or sister
                                 ■■ Brother or sister of father or mother
                                 ■■ Son-in-law, daughter-in-law, father-in-law, mother-in-law, brother-in-law, or sister-in-
                                     law
                                 ■■ The spouse of any individual listed above
                                 ■■ First cousin



                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                         The earnings portion of a nonqualified distribution is taxable to the individual
                                                    who receives the payment, either the account owner or the designated benefi-
                                                    ciary. If the payment is not made to the designated beneficiary or to an eligible
                                                    educational institution for the benefit of the designated beneficiary, it will be
                                                    deemed to have been made to the account owner.




                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                         What if you don’t like the 529 plan you are invested in, can you make a
                                                    change? Federal tax law allows a tax-free rollover of any or all of a 529 account
                                                    from the current 529 plan to a different 529 plan, but only once in any 12-month
                                                    period unless there is a change in beneficiary. Just as with an IRA, if the proceeds
                                                    are distributed, they must be reinvested in the new plan within 60 days. There-
                                                    fore, assets in the QTP may be moved from the plan of one state to the plan of
                                                    another no more frequently than once per 12 months.


                   20. 7. 2. 6 Impact on Financial Eligibility
                                     Investing in a 529 plan will generally impact a student’s eligibility to participate in
                                 need-based financial aid. Both types of plans are treated as parental assets in the calcula-
                                 tion of the expected family contribution toward college costs regardless of whether the
                                 owner is the parent or the student. This is a better deal than if they were non-529 assets of
                                 the student because parental assets are assessed at a maximum 5.64% rate in determining
                                 the student’s Expected Family Contribution (EFC) rather than the 20% rate on non-529
                                 assets owned by the student. These rates will not be tested, but the concept may.


                   20. 7. 2. 7 Contributions to a 529 Plan
                                     Any adult can open a 529 plan for a future college student. The donor does not have
                                 to be related to the student.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 618                                                                                                                  7/15/2016 2:03:35 PM
                                                                              Session 20   Retirement Plans and Educational Funding Programs      619




                                         With a 529 plan, the donor can invest a small or substantial lump sum or make peri-
                                     odic payments. When the student is ready for college, the donor withdraws the amount
                                     needed to pay for qualified education expenses (e.g., tuition, room and board, and books).
                                     Contributions are made with after-tax dollars, but qualified withdrawals are exempt from
                                     federal taxation. As stated above, taxation varies from state to state. If any tax is due on
                                     withdrawal, it is the responsibility of the student, not the donor.
                                         A donor (typically a parent or grandparent) may contribute a maximum of $70,000
                                     ($140,000 if married) in a single year for each Section 529 plan beneficiary without gift
                                     tax consequences. This represents a five-year advance on the (2015) $14,000 per recipient
                                     annual gift tax exclusion.
                                         The donor of the 529 plan assets retains control of most 529 accounts and may take
                                     the money back at any time (although a 10% penalty tax may apply).



                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                         Although it probably won’t be tested, for those who bunch the annual gift
                                                     exclusion allowing five years worth at one time, this is not limited to one time
                                                     per beneficiary. If started with a one-year-old grandchild, the grandparents can
                                                     do this again when the child is six (five years have elapsed) and then again at 11,
                                                     and so forth as long as the total contribution does not exceed the state’s limit.
                                                     Sure would be nice to have grandparents like that, wouldn’t it?


                        20. 7. 2. 8 Offering Circular
                                        These plans are considered “municipal fund securities” and, under the rules of the
                                     MSRB, require delivery of an official statement, sometimes called an offering circular, but
                                     never referred to as a prospectus.


                        20. 7. 2. 9 Investment Options for 529 Plans
                                         In general, these plans offer several different portfolio options ranging from aggressive
                                     (for those with a longer time horizon) to guaranteed (for those in college using the funds).
                                     In most cases, these portfolios are registered mutual funds, in others, they are separately
                                     managed accounts containing stocks and/or bonds. Some portfolios include insured bank
                                     CDs and some of the states offer managed fixed income pools.



                                !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                          However, U.S. Savings Bonds are not available as investment options in Sec-
                                                     tion 529 Plans.




                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                         Key points to remember about Section 529 Plans include the following.
                                                         ■■ The dollar amount of allowable contribution varies from state to state
                                                            and may be as high as $300,000.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 619                                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:03:35 PM
     620        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                                                         ■■ Assets in the account remain under the donor’s control even after the
                                                            student is of legal age.

                                                         ■■ There are no income limitations on donors making contributions to a
                                                            529 plan.

                                                         ■■ Unlike Coverdell ESAs, these cannot be used for educational expenses
                                                            incurred below the post-secondary level (post-high school).

                                                         ■■ There are no age restrictions. That is, if at any age, an individual desires
                                                            to go back to school, a 529 Plan may be used.

                                                         ■■ Earnings are exempt from federal taxes (as are withdrawals) if they go
                                                            toward qualified postsecondary educational expenses.

                                                         ■■ Most states hire experienced investment management companies to
                                                            manage their accounts.

                                                         ■■ In almost all cases, residents do not pay state income tax on qualified
                                                            withdrawals from home-state plans.

                                                         ■■ In a majority of the states with an income tax, residents are afforded an
                                                            income tax deduction or credit for a portion of their contribution.

                                                         ■■ If funds are withdrawn for purposes other than education, earnings
                                                            are subject to a 10% penalty as well as federal income tax. States may
                                                            assess their own penalties. The tax is the obligation of the distributee
                                                            (student/beneficiary).

                                                         ■■ Because of their legal status as municipal fund securities, it is required to
                                                            deliver an official statement or offering circular when opening a 529 Plan
                                                            account.




                             Q
                 QUICK QUIZ 20.G                    1.   The maximum amount that may be invested in a Coverdell ESA in one year is
                                                         A.   $500 per parent
                                                         B.   $2,000 per child
                                                         C.   $500 per couple
                                                         D.   $2,000 per couple

                                                    2.   One of your clients is a successful professional couple with earnings in excess
                                                         of $500,000 per year. They are interested in providing a funding source for
                                                         post-secondary education for their grandchildren. Which would be appropri-
                                                         ate to discuss with them?
                                                         A.   The Coverdell ESA
                                                         B.   The Section 529 plan
                                                         C.   Both the Coverdell ESA and the Section 529 plan
                                                         D.   Neither the Coverdell ESA nor the Section 529 Plan




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 620                                                                                                                  7/15/2016 2:03:35 PM
                                                                      Session 20   Retirement Plans and Educational Funding Programs      621




                   20. 8     CUSTODIAL ACCOUNTS
                                   Long before there were Education IRAs and Section 529 plans, a favored way of sav-
                              ing for a child’s education (or anything else for that matter, was by the use of a custodial
                              account under the Uniform Gift to Minors Act. In a custodial account, the custodian for
                              the beneficial owner enters all trades. UGMA and UTMA accounts require an adult or a
                              trustee to act as custodian for a minor (the beneficial owner). Any kind of security or cash
                              may be gifted to the account without limitation.
                                   The Uniform Law Commissioners adopted the Uniform Gift to Minors Act (UGMA)
                              in 1956 (the same year as the Uniform Securities Act). The primary focus then was to
                              provide a convenient way to make gifts of money and securities to minors. Later, it became
                              clear that a more flexible law was desirable. The Uniform Law Commissioners adopted the
                              Uniform Transfers to Minors Act (UTMA) in 1986. UTMA expands the types of property
                              you can transfer to a minor and provides that you can make other types of transfers besides
                              gifts.
                                   Nearly all states have adopted UTMA, but people still tend to refer to UGMA out of
                              habit. For exam purposes, it doesn’t matter which law is in effect in your state because the
                              essential principles of both acts are the same.


                   20. 8. 1 CUSTODIAN
                                  Securities in an UGMA/UTMA account are managed by a custodian until the minor
                              reaches the age of majority. The custodian has full control over the minor’s account and
                              can:
                              ■■ buy or sell securities;
                              ■■ exercise rights or warrants; and
                              ■■ liquidate, trade, or hold securities.

                                  The custodian also may use the property in the account in any way the custodian
                              deems proper for the minor’s support, education, maintenance, general use, or benefit.
                              However, the account is not normally used to pay expenses associated with raising a child,
                              such as the three basic needs of food, clothing, and shelter.


                   20. 8. 2 OPENING AN UGMA/UTMA ACCOUNT
                                 UGMA/UTMA account applications must contain the custodian’s name, minor’s
                              name and Social Security number, and the state in which the UGMA/UTMA is registered.



                             !
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT
                                                  The minor’s Social Security number is used on the account.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 621                                                                                                         7/15/2016 2:03:35 PM
     622        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                   20. 8. 2. 1 Fiduciary Responsibility
                                     An UGMA/UTMA custodian assumes fiduciary responsibilities in managing a minor’s
                                 account. Restrictions are placed on improper handling of investments in an UGMA/
                                 UTMA. The most important limitations follow.
                                 ■■ UGMAs/UTMAs may be opened and managed as cash accounts only.
                                 ■■ A custodian may never purchase securities on margin or pledge them as collateral for
                                     a loan.
                                 ■■ A custodian must reinvest all cash proceeds, dividends, and interest within a rea-
                                     sonable period of time. Cash proceeds may be held in an interest-bearing custodial
                                     account for a reasonable period.
                                 ■■ Investment decisions must consider a minor’s age and the custodial relationship;
                                     examples of inappropriate investments are commodity futures, naked options, and
                                     high-risk securities.
                                 ■■ Options may not be bought in a custodial account because no evidence of ownership
                                     is issued to an options buyer.
                                 ■■ Covered call writing is normally allowed.
                                 ■■ Stock subscription rights or warrants must be either exercised or sold.

                                     A custodian may be reimbursed for any reasonable expenses incurred in managing
                                 the account. Compensation may be paid to the custodian unless the custodian is also the
                                 donor.


                   20. 8. 2. 2 Donating Securities
                                      When a person makes a gift of securities to a minor under the UGMA/UTMA laws,
                                 that person is the securities’ donor. A gift under UGMA/UTMA conveys an indefeasible
                                 title—that is, the donor may not take back the gift, nor may the minor return the gift
                                 until the minor has reached the age of majority. Once a gift is donated, the donor gives up
                                 all rights to the property. When the minor reaches the specified age, the property in the
                                 account is transferred into the minor’s name.


                   20. 8. 2. 3 UGMA/UTMA Rules
                                     Registered investment advisers should know the following UGMA/UTMA custodial
                                 account rules.
                                 ■■ All gifts are irrevocable. Gifts may be in the form of cash or fully paid securities.
                                 ■■ An account may have only one custodian and one minor or beneficial owner.
                                 ■■ A donor of securities can act as custodian or appoint someone to do so.
                                 ■■ Unless they are acting as custodians, parents have no legal control over an UGMA/
                                     UTMA account or the securities in it.
                                 ■■ A minor can be the beneficiary of more than one account, and a person may serve as
                                     custodian for more than one UGMA/UTMA, provided each account benefits only
                                     one minor.
                                 ■■ The minor has the right to sue the custodian for improper actions.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 622                                                                                                     7/15/2016 2:03:35 PM
                                                                              Session 20   Retirement Plans and Educational Funding Programs      623




                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                         Although an investment adviser representative is not responsible for deter-
                                                     mining whether an appointment is valid or a custodian’s activities are appropriate,
                                                     he should always be sensitive to the appearance of unethical behavior.


                        20. 8. 2. 4 Registration of UGMA/UTMA Securities
                                         Any securities in an UGMA/UTMA account are generally registered in the custo-
                                     dian’s name for the benefit of the minor and cannot be solely in the minor’s name.
                                         So that transfers may be accomplished more expeditiously, securities may be held
                                     by custodians in street name.




                               *
                              EXAMPLE                    In an account where Marilyn Johns, the donor, has appointed her daughter’s
                                                     aunt, Barbara Wood, as custodian for the account of her minor daughter, Alexis,
                                                     the account and the certificates would read “Barbara Wood as custodian for
                                                     Alexis Johns” (or a variation of this form).
                                                         When the minor reaches the age of majority, all of the securities in the ac-
                                                     count are registered in her name. However, that change in registration is not
                                                     automatic— the new adult must initiate the transfer.


                        20. 8. 2. 5 Death of the Minor or Custodian
                                         If the beneficiary of an UGMA/UTMA dies, the securities in the account pass to the
                                     minor’s estate, not to the parents or the custodian. If the custodian dies or resigns, either
                                     a court of law or the donor must appoint a new custodian.


                        20. 8. 2. 6 Uniform Transfers to Minors (UTMA)
                                          Although UTMA and UGMA share many characteristics, there are a few important
                                     differences. First, although UGMA accounts may not hold real estate (real property), cer-
                                     tain partnership interests, and other types of intangible property, UTMA accounts may.
                                     Thus, UTMA accounts offer greater investment choice.
                                          In many states, UTMA account assets are not required to be transferred upon the age
                                     of majority of the beneficial owner (the child). In many UTMA states, the custodian may
                                     delay transferring the UTMA assets to the beneficial owner until he becomes age 21 or 25
                                     (depending on the particular state statute).



                                ✓
                             TA K E N O T E
                                                          A potential estate tax trap is present with custodial accounts such as UGMAs
                                                     and UTMAs. Under certain circumstances, the assets in the minor’s custodial
                                                     account may be includable, for federal estate tax purposes, in the estate of the
                                                     custodian when the custodian dies. This could be a problem for the parent or
                                                     grandparent who incorrectly assumes that the gift made to the minor is no longer
                                                     in his estate.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 623                                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:03:35 PM
     624        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




                   20. 8. 2. 7 Taxation
                                      The minor’s Social Security number appears on an UGMA/UTMA account, and the
                                 minor must file an annual income tax return and pay taxes on any income exceeding
                                 $2,100 (2015) produced by the UGMA/UTMA at the parent’s top marginal tax rate,
                                 regardless of the source of the gift, until the minor reaches age 19, unless the individual is a
                                 full-time student, in which case, under 24 (commonly referred to as the kiddie tax). Lower
                                 amounts of annual unearned income are not subject to the kiddie tax.
                                      When the minor is no longer covered by the kiddie tax, the account will be taxed at
                                 the minor’s tax rate. Although the minor is the account’s beneficiary and is responsible for
                                 any and all taxes on the account, in most states it is the custodian’s responsibility to see
                                 that the taxes are paid.



             20. 9           HEALTH SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (HSA s )

                                      A health savings account (HSA) is a tax-exempt trust or custodial account individu-
                                 als can set up with a qualified HSA trustee to pay or reimburse certain medical expenses
                                 they incur.


             20. 9. 1 BENEFITS OF AN HSA
                                 ■■ You can claim a tax deduction for contributions you, or someone other than your
                                    employer, make to your HSA even if you do not itemize your deductions on Form
                                    1040.
                                 ■■ Contributions to your HSA made by your employer (including contributions made
                                    through a cafeteria plan) may be excluded from your gross income.
                                 ■■ The contributions remain in your account until you use them.
                                 ■■ The interest or other earnings on the assets in the account are tax free.
                                 ■■ Distributions may be tax free if you pay qualified medical expenses.
                                 ■■ An HSA is portable. It stays with you if you change employers or leave the work force.


             20. 9. 2 ELIGIBILITY FOR AN HSA
                                     To be an eligible individual and qualify for an HSA, you must meet the following
                                 requirements.
                                 ■■ You must be covered under a high deductible health plan (HDHP), on the first day of
                                     the month. That means you are considered to be an eligible individual for the entire
                                     year if you are an eligible individual on the first day of the last month of your tax year
                                     (December 1 for most taxpayers)
                                 ■■ You have no other health coverage except what is permitted under the rules.
                                 ■■ You are not enrolled in Medicare.
                                 ■■ You cannot be claimed as a dependent on someone else’s tax return.
                                 ■■ Each spouse who is an eligible individual who wants an HSA must open a separate
                                     HSA. You cannot have a joint HSA.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 624                                                                                                          7/15/2016 2:03:35 PM
                                                                       Session 20   Retirement Plans and Educational Funding Programs      625




                   20. 9. 3 HIGH DEDUCTIBLE HEALTH PLAN (HDHP)
                                  An HDHP has:
                               ■■ A higher annual deductible than typical health plans, and
                               ■■ A maximum limit on the sum of the annual deductible and out-of-pocket medical
                                  expenses that you must pay for covered expenses. Out-of-pocket expenses include
                                  copayments and other amounts, but do not include premiums.


                   20. 9. 4 CONTRIBUTIONS TO AN HSA
                                   Any eligible individual can contribute to an HSA. For an employee’s HSA, the
                               employee, the employee’s employer, or both may contribute to the employee’s HSA in
                               the same year. For an HSA established by a self-employed (or unemployed) individual,
                               the individual can contribute. Family members or any other person may also make con-
                               tributions on behalf of an eligible individual. Contributions to an HSA must be made in
                               cash. Contributions of stock or property are not allowed. There is a limit on the amount
                               that may be contributed, but, because it is a number that changes each year, it will not
                               be tested. The only facts that could be important are that the contribution for those with
                               family coverage is higher (logically) than that for self-only coverage and that the amount
                               the individual may contribute is reduced by any amounts contributed by the employer.




                             Q
                       QUICK QUIZ 20.H        1.   If a customer would like to open a custodial UGMA or UTMA account for his
                                                   nephew, a minor, the uncle can
                                                   A. open the account provided the proper trust arrangements are filed first
                                                   B. open the account and name himself custodian
                                                   C. open the account, but he needs a legal document evidencing the
                                                      nephew’s parents’ prior approval of the account
                                                   D. be custodian for the account only if he is also the minor’s legal guardian

                                              2.   An investor wants to provide for his 3 nephews after his brother dies. Under
                                                   the UTMA, the investor may open
                                                   A.   1 account for all 3 nephews
                                                   B.   3 separate accounts and deposit cash and securities
                                                   C.   3 separate accounts and deposit insurance policies
                                                   D.   3 separate accounts and deposit fixed annuities

                                              3.   Among the eligibility requirements to open a health savings account is
                                                   A. the individual must be on Medicare
                                                   B. the individual must be claimed as a dependent on another individual’ s
                                                      tax return
                                                   C. the individual must have a HDHP
                                                   D. if married, you must have a joint HSA




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 625                                                                                                          7/15/2016 2:03:35 PM
       626         Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition




             Q U I C K               Q U I Z           A N S W E R S

        Quick Quiz 20.A                                                      Quick Quiz 20.B

           1. A.       Any individual with earned income who                   1. C.   A person with self-employment income may
                       is under age 70½ may contribute to a                            deduct contributions to a Keogh plan. Keogh
                       traditional IRA. The deductibility of those                     plans are not available to corporations or
                       contributions will be determined by that                        their employees.
                       person’s coverage under qualified plans and
                       by his level of income.                                 2. C.   All interest, dividends, and capital gains
                                                                                       accumulated in a Keogh are tax deferred
           2. B.       All withdrawals from IRAs are taxed at                          until their withdrawal (which must begin
                       the individual’s ordinary income tax rate at                    between age 59½ and by April 1 after the
                       the time of withdrawal. Distributions made                      year in which the account owner turns
                       before age 59½ will incur an additional 10%                     70½). The account owner may choose to
                       tax penalty.                                                    take distributions in the form of lifetime
                                                                                       income payments or as a single lump sum.
           3. C.       The penalty for premature withdrawals from
                       an IRA or a Keogh account is 10% plus                   3. A.   Keogh contributions can only be made
                       ordinary income tax. The excess contribution                    before the date on which an individual turns
                       penalty is 6%, whereas the 50% penalty                          70½.
                       applies after age 70½.
                                                                             Quick Quiz 20.C
           4. A.       Early withdrawals, without penalty, are
                       permitted only in certain situations (such as           1. C.   Because he is employed by a public school
                       death or qualifying disability).                                system, the customer is eligible to participate
                                                                                       in the tax-sheltered annuity plan. Employee
           5. B.       Cash value life insurance, term insurance,                      contributions to a TSA plan are excluded
                       and collectibles are not permissible                            from gross income in the year in which they
                       investments in an IRA.                                          are made. As in other retirement plans,
                                                                                       a penalty tax is assessed on distributions
           6. B.       Small businesses and self-employed persons                      received before age 59½. Mutual funds,
                       typically establish SEP IRAs because they are                   CDs, and annuity contracts are among the
                       easier and less expensive than other plans for                  investment choices available for TSA plans.
                       an employer to set up and administer.
                                                                               2. A.   The giveaway here is the public school
           7. C.       The common factor for both traditional and                      employees—the 403(b) is their plan as well
                       Roth IRAs is that the amount that may be                        as being offered to employees of certain, but
                       contributed is the same for both. Traditional                   not all, tax-exempt organizations.
                       IRAs offer tax-deductible contributions, but
                       withdrawals are generally taxed. Roth IRAs              3. B.   Minimum distributions from TSAs are
                       do not offer tax-deductible contributions, but                  required to start by April 1 of the year
                       qualified withdrawals are tax free. Traditional                 following the year in which the participant
                       IRAs require distributions to begin by April 1                  turns 70½.
                       after the year an owner reaches age 70½, but
                       this is not true for Roth IRAs.                         4. A.   A guaranteed investment contract (GIC) is
                                                                                       regarded as a conservative investment.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 626                                                                                                               7/15/2016 2:03:35 PM
                                                                            Session 20   Retirement Plans and Educational Funding Programs       627



                   Quick Quiz 20.D                                                  5. T.      The maximum contributions for defined
                                                                                               benefit plans allow a larger contribution in
                      1. B.   Funding covers how an employer contributes                       a shorter period for highly paid individuals
                              to or funds a plan.                                              nearing retirement.

                      2. B.   The retirement plan’s trust agreement                 6. F.      Remember the (k) in 401(k) reminds us that
                              specifies the formula(s) used to determine the                   top-heavy plans benefit key employees.
                              contributions to a defined contribution plan.
                                                                                 Quick Quiz 20.F
                      3. B.   Although all of these may have a fiduciary
                              responsibility, the definition, as expressed in       1. D.
                              the Uniform Prudent Investor Act of 1994,
                              requires reasonable care, skill, and caution.         2. A.

                      4. D.   To comply with the safe harbor provisions             3. B.
                              of ERISA’s Section 404(c), the plan trustee
                                                                                    4. C.
                              must allow each participant control over
                              their investments and furnish them with full       Quick Quiz 20.G
                              performance and risk information. The rule
                              only mandates a minimum of 3 alternatives             1. B.      Only $2,000 may be invested in each child’s
                              and quarterly changes.                                           ESA per year. If a couple has three children,
                                                                                               they may contribute $6,000 in total, or
                      5. B.   For a loan not to be treated as a taxable                        $2,000 per child, per year.
                              distribution for tax purposes, it must be
                              repayable within 5 years at a reasonable rate         2. B.      Although both plans will help them with
                              of interest. The unforeseeable emergency                         their objective, their earnings are above the
                              requirements are found in a Section 457                          Coverdell ESA limits.
                              Plan.
                                                                                 Quick Quiz 20.H
                   Quick Quiz 20.E
                                                                                    1. B.      The donor may name himself the custodian
                      1. T.                                                                    of an UGMA or UTMA account. No
                                                                                               documentation of custodial status is required
                      2. T.   Why isn’t this a transfer? The key is the                        to open these accounts, and the custodian is
                              phrase, “generally within a specified period.”                   not required to be the minor’s legal guardian.
                              That refers to the 60 days one has to
                              complete the rollover without penalty. In             2. B.      UTMA rules require that any UTMA
                              the case of a direct transfer, time limits are                   account have only one beneficial owner and
                              not a relevant factor—the investor never has                     one custodian. Cash and securities may be
                              access to the funds.                                             donated into the account, but insurance
                                                                                               contracts and fixed annuities may not.
                      3. F.
                                                                                    3. C.      In order to be eligible for a health savings
                      4. T.                                                                    plan, an individual must be enrolled in a high
                                                                                               deductible health plan (HDHP).




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 627                                                                                                                   7/15/2016 2:03:36 PM
Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 628   7/15/2016 2:03:36 PM
                                                                                                               Unit 4   Unit Test       629




                        U N I T         T E S T

                     1. John purchased securities in the yacht-building        5. Duration is
                        business. Two years ago, his securities had lost          A. equivalent to the yield to maturity
                        most of their value as a result of a congressionally      B. a measure of a bond’s volatility with respect to
                        imposed luxury tax on purchases of more than                 a change in interest rates
                        $30,000. John’s purchase of an investment in the          C. the deviation of a bond’s returns from its
                        yacht-building business suffered                             average returns
                        A. interest rate risk                                     D. identical to a bond’s maturity
                        B. business risk
                        C. legislative risk                                    6. The yield to maturity is
                        D. volatility                                             A. set at issuance and printed on the face of the
                                                                                     bond
                     2. Use the following chart to answer this question           B. determined by dividing the coupon rate by the
                         Equity      100%         35%      20%    0%                 current market price of the bond
                         Fixed income 0%          65%      80% 100%               C. the annualized return of a bond if it is held to
                         High return  45.4%       34.2%    31.3% 28.7%               maturity
                                                                                  D. the annualized return of a bond if it is held to
                         Low return   –7.4%        5.5%     8.2%  6.5%
                                                                                     call date
                         Avg. return  18.8%       19.2%    16.5% 14.2%
                         Std. dev.    12.25       10.95    10.02 10.46         7. “Stock prices adjust rapidly to the release of all
                                                                                  new public information.” This statement is an ex-
                   		 Which of these portfolio allocations would you              pression of which of the following ideas?
                      expect to show the least volatility over the next
                      year?                                                       A. Arbitrage pricing theory
                                                                                  B. Efficient market hypothesis
                      A. 100%/0%                                                  C. Odd-lot theory
                      B. 35%/65%                                                  D. Tactical allocation
                      C. 20%/80%
                      D. 0%/100%                                               8. Expected return is
                     3. Risk-adjusted return is calculated by                     A. the difference between an investment’s
                                                                                     present value and its cost
                        A. multiplying the return of an investment by its         B. the current worth of future income discounted
                            standard deviation                                       to reflect what that income is worth today
                        B. dividing the price of the stock by its standard        C. an estimate of probable returns an investment
                            deviation                                                may yield
                        C. dividing the remainder of the risk-free rate           D. the one discount rate that equates the future
                            subtracted from the security’s actual return by          value of an investment with its net present
                            its standard deviation                                   value
                        D. dividing the security’s price by its beta

                     4. What is the total return on a 1-year, newly issued
                        (365 days to maturity) zero-coupon debt obliga-
                        tion priced at 95?
                        A. The return cannot be determined without
                            knowing current interest rates.
                        B. 5%
                        C. 5.26% plus the implied coupon rate
                        D. 5.26%




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 629                                                                                                          7/15/2016 2:03:36 PM
        630        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition



          9. Dan is the owner of a mutual fund that returned                 13. An investor invests $1,000 into the shares of the
             him a before-tax return of 15% last year. Inflation                 Stratford Growth and Income Fund, an open-end
             is running at an annual rate of 3%, and Dan is in a                 investment company registered under the Invest-
             27% marginal income tax bracket. What has been                      ment Company Act of 1940. On the purchase
             Dan’s approximate inflation-adjusted after-tax                      application, the investor checked the boxes sig-
             return on the fund over the course of the last year                 nifying that dividends were to be paid out in cash
             (rounded to the nearest 2 decimal points)?                          and capital gains were to be reinvested. During
             A. 7.95%                                                            year, the fund pays dividends of $20 and distributes
             B. 8.76%                                                            a $250 capital gain. At the end of the year, the
             C. 10.95%                                                           fund’s value is $1,300. The total return to this in-
             D. 12.00%                                                           vestor was
                                                                                 A. 25%
        10. Which two of the following statements are                            B. 27%
            CORRECT?                                                             C. 30%
             I. Time-weighted returns are generally of more                      D. 32%
                use than dollar-weighted returns to evaluate
                portfolio manager performance.                               14. Which of the following bond strategies would be
            II. Time-weighted returns are generally of more                      considered passive?
                use than dollar-weighted returns to evaluate                     A. Barbell
                individual investor performance.                                 B. Bullet
           III. Dollar-weighted returns are generally of more                    C. Buy and hold
                use than time-weighted returns to evaluate                       D. Laddering
                portfolio manager performance.
           IV. Dollar-weighted returns are generally of more                 15. A new account is opened for joint tenants with
                use than time-weighted returns to evaluate                       rights of survivorship. All of the following state-
                individual investor performance.                                 ments are true EXCEPT
              A. I and II                                                        A. orders may be given by either party
              B. I and IV                                                        B. mail can be sent to either party with the
              C. II and III                                                          permission of the other party
              D. III and IV                                                      C. checks can be drawn in the name of either
                                                                                     party
        11. A portfolio manager who routinely shifts portfolio                   D. in the event of death, the decedent’s interest
            assets to take advantage of the business cycle is                        in the account goes to the other party
            said to be engaging in
            A. asset allocation                                              16. If 3 individuals have a tenants in common account
            B. correlation                                                       with a firm and one individual dies, then
            C. rebalancing                                                       A. the account must be liquidated and the
            D. sector rotation                                                        proceeds split evenly among the 2 survivors
                                                                                      and the decedent’s estate
        12. An investor has $50,000 to invest in bonds. Cur-                     B. the 2 survivors continue as cotenants with the
            rently, 10-year bonds are offering very attractive                        decedent’s estate
            yields, but the client is concerned that in a few                    C. trading is discontinued until the executor
            years, rates will be even higher. What would you                          names a replacement for the deceased
            suggest?                                                             D. the account is converted to joint with rights of
            A. Barbell bonds                                                          survivorship
            B. Bullet bonds
            C. Diversifying
            D. Laddering




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 630                                                                                                              7/15/2016 2:03:36 PM
                                                                                                              Unit 4 Unit Test       631



                   17. Which of the following are fiduciaries?               22. Since a trust account is managed for the beneficial
                        I. Executor of an estate                                 interest of the beneficiary, the investment adviser
                       II. Administrator of a trust                              representative can
                      III. Custodian of an UGMA account                          A. have funds withdrawn from the account at the
                      IV. Investment adviser representative granted                  direction of the beneficiary
                           with discretionary authority over the account         B. arrange to have the trust’s funds pledged to
                       A. I and II                                                   support a loan for the trustee
                       B. I, II and III                                          C. have a check drawn on the account, and
                       C. II, III and IV                                             payable to the trustee for trustee expenses
                       D. I, II, III and IV                                      D. place the securities in the trust fund in a
                                                                                     non‑custodial brokerage account
                   18. Under the UGMA, which of the following state-
                       ments is NOT true?                                    23. Which of the following is an example of a passive
                                                                                 investment management style?
                       A. An UGMA account may have only one
                          custodian for only one minor.                          A. Use of index funds in conjunction with
                       B. Only an adult can make a gift to a minor.                  selecting specific securities in the index to
                       C. The maximum amount of money an adult can                   overweight certain sectors
                          give to a minor in any one year is $14,000.            B. Investment in small capitalization technology
                       D. Once a gift is given to a minor, it cannot be              securities
                          reclaimed.                                             C. Exclusive use of index funds
                                                                                 D. Value investing
                   19. Which of the following accounts could be opened
                       with a TOD designation?                               24. In determining an investor’s risk tolerance, an
                                                                                 investment adviser representative must consider
                        I. Individual
                       II. Joint tenants in common                                I. level of tolerance toward market volatility
                      III. Joint tenants with rights of survivorship             II. investment time horizon, long term or short
                      IV. UTMA                                                       term
                                                                                III. liquidity requirements
                       A. I and II
                                                                                IV. investment temperament
                       B. I and III
                       C. I, III and IV                                          A. I only
                       D. II and IV                                              B. I and II
                                                                                 C. I, II and III
                   20. In making suitable investment recommendations,            D. I, II, III and IV
                       the least significant element would be the client’s
                                                                             25. With respect to taxation, the investment adviser
                       A. retirement needs
                                                                                 representative should not
                       B. death and disability needs
                       C. educational level                                      A. draft tax and estate documents to ensure
                       D. current income                                             compliance with current law in order to
                                                                                     provide substantial after-tax returns
                   21. An estate account with an investment adviser              B. discuss the tax implications of investments
                       must be managed at the direction of the                   C. explain the taxable status of particular
                                                                                     investments
                       A. investment adviser
                                                                                 D. consider tax implications as a way of
                       B. estate creditors
                                                                                     improving a client’s after-tax returns
                       C. estate’s executor or administrator
                       D. attorney with guardianship over the surviving
                          children




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 631                                                                                                       7/15/2016 2:03:36 PM
        632        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition



        26. Which of the following statements is an accurate                 28. As part of its suitability determination, an IA
            description of dollar cost averaging?                                firm requires that all potential nonbusiness clients
            A. An investor buys the same number of shares                        complete a family balance sheet. Items that would
                each interval, averaging out his purchase                        be included are
                prices over time.                                                  I. gold jewelry
            B. An investor sells shares when the market rises                    II. loan secured by the family automobile
                and buys shares when the market declines in                     III. the amount paid thus far this year for Botox
                order to average his costs.                                           injections
            C. An investor invests a set amount of money                        IV. the balance owed to the dentist for new
                each interval to buy more shares when the                             crowns
                prices are low and fewer shares when prices are                  A. I, II and IV
                high.                                                            B. I and IV
            D. An investor averages the costs of his shares                      C. II and III
                purchased and then enters limit orders to                        D. I, II, III and IV
                purchase additional shares at the average
                price.                                                       29. During the previous fiscal year, The Kaplan Family
                                                                                 Trust received $24,000 in dividends and $35,000
        27. Which of the following statements regarding taxa-                    in interest from corporate bonds. Securities
            tion is NOT true?                                                    transactions during the year resulted in long-term
            A. Earned income includes salary, bonus, and                         capital gains of $48,000, $20,000 of which were
                income as an owner of a limited partnership.                     reinvested in the corpus. The DNI for the Kaplan
            B. Passive income is derived from rental property,                   Family Trust is
                limited partnerships, and enterprises in which                   A. $11,000
                an individual is not actively involved.                          B. $79,000
            C. Portfolio income includes dividends, interest,                    C. $87,000
                and net capital gains derived from the sale of                   D. $107,000
                securities.
            D. Items that must be added back into taxable                    30. A taxpayer’s marginal tax rate is
                income for calculation of the alternative
                                                                                 A. the rate of tax paid on margin account interest
                minimum tax (AMT) include: accelerated
                                                                                 B. generally lower than the effective tax rate
                depreciation on property placed in service
                                                                                 C. the rate of taxation on any additional taxable
                after 1986; local taxes and interest on
                                                                                     income received
                investments that do not generate income; and
                                                                                 D. the rate of tax paid on total taxable income
                incentive stock options exceeding the fair
                market value of the employer’s stock.
                                                                             31. Your client owns a beach-front home that he has
                                                                                 been renting out to others for the past 5 years. He
                                                                                 plans to start taking things a bit easier and wishes
                                                                                 to make personal use of the home part of the year.
                                                                                 Under IRS regulations, if he wanted to continue
                                                                                 to receive the same tax benefits he’s enjoyed in the
                                                                                 past, he would be permitted to enjoy the property
                                                                                 no more than
                                                                                 A. 1 month per taxable year
                                                                                 B. 2 weeks per year
                                                                                 C. 3 weeks per year
                                                                                 D. the greater of 14 days or 10% of the total days
                                                                                      rented to others at a fair rental price




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 632                                                                                                              7/15/2016 2:03:36 PM
                                                                                                                Unit 4 Unit Test       633



                   32. A wealthy individual has set up a GRAT. Should          35. An exchange specialist is
                       she die during the time the trust is active, how are        A. a trader who makes a market in OTC stocks
                       the remaining assets in the trust taxed?                       and ADRs
                       A. The original value plus any appreciation is              B. a floor broker on the New York Stock
                           taxed as part of the grantor’s estate.                     Exchange who only executes trades for other
                       B. The original value plus any appreciation passes             brokers in return for commissions
                           to the beneficiaries but is subject to gift tax.        C. a member of the New York Stock Exchange
                       C. The original value plus any appreciation passes             who executes orders for other members and
                           to the beneficiaries and is taxed as ordinary              who also acts as a market maker charged with
                           income.                                                    the responsibility of keeping an orderly market
                       D. No tax is due if the grantor should die during              in designated stocks
                           the term of the trust.                                  D. an electronic brokerage concern that executes
                                                                                      trades online and through specialized trading
                   33. An individual is a participant in the 401(k) plan              order executing services
                       offered by her employer. If she were to invest $400
                       per month into a large-cap growth fund, she would       36. Which of the following types of orders does NOT
                       be                                                          restrict the price at which an order is executed?
                       A. following a constant ratio plan                          A. Limit
                       B. dollar cost averaging                                    B. Stop
                       C. matching her employer’s contribution                     C. Market
                       D. using a tactical asset allocation style                  D. Stop limit

                   34. An investment adviser representative specializes        37. A broker-dealer acting as a principal in a trade
                       in the senior market. A number of his clients have          would
                       reached the age where they are contemplating                A. add a markup to the bid price when offering
                       selling their homes and moving into an assisted                shares to a client
                       living facility. The profit made on the sale of their       B. add a markup to the offering price when
                       homes will be used to defray the costs of their new            selling shares to a client
                       residence. Under current tax laws, which of the             C. must always disclose the amount of markup on
                       following are TRUE?                                            a client’s confirmation statement
                        I. A single person pays no tax on the first                D. must disclose to clients the amount of earnings
                            $250,000 of net profit realized on the sale of a          he made on principal transactions in excess
                            primary residence that has been occupied for              of the amount he would have made had he
                            at least 2 of the past 5 years.                           charged a commission
                       II. A single person pays no tax on the first
                            $500,000 of net profit realized on the sale of a   38. Which of the following orders would be most
                            primary residence that has been occupied for           likely to add fuel to a bullish stock market?
                            at least 2 of the past 5 years.                        A. Buy limit
                      III. A married couple pays no tax on the first               B. Buy stop
                            $250,000 of net profit realized on the sale of a       C. Sell limit
                            primary residence that has been occupied for           D. Sell stop
                            at least 2 of the past 5 years.
                      IV. A married couple pays no tax on the first            39. An investor wishing to buy US Treasury bonds
                            $500,000 of net profit realized on the sale of a       receives a quote from the dealer of 98.16. This rep-
                            primary residence that has been occupied for           resents
                            at least 2 of the past 5 years.
                                                                                   A. the bid
                       A. I and III                                                B. a discount
                       B. I and IV                                                 C. the offer
                       C. II and III                                               D. an indication of falling interest rates
                       D. II and IV




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 633                                                                                                         7/15/2016 2:03:36 PM
        634        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition



        40. A broker-dealer quotes a stock 42 to a half. The                 44. The minimum size order that would be considered
            difference between these two numbers is known as                     a block trade is
            A. the broker’s commission                                           A. 500 shares
            B. the dealer’s markup                                               B. 1,000 shares
            C. the profit margin                                                 C. 10,000 shares
            D. the spread                                                        D. 100,000 shares

        41. It would be correct to state that                                45. Under ERISA, a fiduciary must act in all of the
             I. the specialist stands ready to buy or sell stock                 following ways EXCEPT
                on the floor of an exchange in an effort to                      A. solely in the interest of plan participants and
                keep an orderly market                                                beneficiaries
            II. the specialist stands ready to buy or sell stock                 B. with care, skill, prudence, and caution under
                on the over-the-counter market in an effort to                        the circumstances then prevailing that a
                keep an orderly market                                                prudent person acting in like capacity and
           III. the market maker stands ready to buy or sell                          familiar with such matters would use in the
                stock on the floor of an exchange in an effort                        conduct of an enterprise of a like character
                to keep an orderly market                                        C. in accordance with the governing plan
           IV. the market maker stands ready to buy or sell                           documents unless they are not consistent with
                stock on the over-the-counter market in an                            ERISA
                effort to keep an orderly market                                 D. confining investments to only those most
            A. I and III                                                              likely to achieve growth
            B. I and IV
            C. II and III                                                    46. Which of the following statements regarding a tra-
            D. II and IV                                                         ditional IRA for someone filing a 2015 tax return
                                                                                 is TRUE?
        42. A client of a brokerage firm purchases 100 shares                    A. A traditional IRA allows a maximum tax-
            of ABC common stock at a price of $50 per share.                          deductible annual contribution of $2,500
            On settlement date, the firm journals $2,500 from                         per individual or $4,000 per couple.
            the client’s money market account to pay for the                     B. The income and capital gains earned in the
            trade. No further call for money is made. This                            account are tax deferred until the funds are
            trade must have taken place in a                                          withdrawn.
            A. cash account                                                      C. Distributions without penalty may begin after
            B. depository account                                                     age 59½ and must begin by April 1 of the year
            C. margin account                                                         preceding the year an individual turns 70½.
            D. wrap fee account                                                  D. Distributions before age 59½ are subject to a
                                                                                      10% penalty in lieu of income taxes.
        43. You have a client with a margin account at your
            broker-dealer. If the market price of the securities             47. IRAs and Keogh plans are similar in the following
            in the account should fall to a point where you                      ways EXCEPT
            have to ask the client for additional funds, it is                   A. deferral of taxes
            A. a Regulation T call                                               B. distributions without penalty can begin as
            B. a maintenance margin call                                            early as age 59½
            C. a margin call                                                     C. identical amounts of cash contributions are
            D. a market call                                                        allowed
                                                                                 D. there is a 50% tax penalty for insufficient
                                                                                    distributions




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 634                                                                                                            7/15/2016 2:03:36 PM
                                                                                                                Unit 4 Unit Test       635



                   48. All of the following investments are eligible for a     52. Which of the following would not constitute a
                       traditional IRA EXCEPT                                      conflict of interest between the plan and a fidu-
                       A. covered call writing                                     ciary?
                       B. bank CDs                                                 A. A fiduciary sells a real estate investment to the
                       C. works of art                                                 plan at the current market rate.
                       D. growth-oriented securities                               B. A fiduciary participates in a transaction on
                                                                                       the plan’s behalf that involves a party with
                   49. Which of the following is an allowable early with-              interests adverse to those of the plan in order
                       drawal from a traditional IRA without penalty?                  to ensure favorable terms for the plan.
                       A. A wealthy individual withdraws $10,000                   C. A fiduciary offers reduced commissions to
                           from his IRA to purchase his first principal                the plan for transactions that are executed
                           residence.                                                  through his employing financial institution.
                       B. A single parent withdraws funds from her IRA             D. The fiduciary receives fees for acting as a
                           to pay for the education of a nephew.                       trustee to the plan.
                       C. A single parent supplements a home equity
                           loan with funds from her IRA to pay for an          53. All of the following are true about college funding
                           additional home (a vacation home).                      plans EXCEPT
                       D. A person withdraws funds from his IRA to                 A. proceeds in ESAs may be withdrawn income
                           buy a principal residence after he sold his first           tax free even if the child is under age 18
                           home as a result of medical expenses.                   B. proceeds in 529s may be withdrawn income-
                                                                                       tax free only if used at an accredited academic
                   50. All of the following statements regarding qualified             institution
                       corporate retirement plans are true EXCEPT                  C. Section 529 plans allow a gift tax exclusion
                       A. all corporate pension and profit-sharing plans               equal to five times the annual limit that may
                           must be established under a trust agreement                 be repeated every 5 years
                       B. all qualified retirement plans are either defined        D. a beneficiary of an ESA who withdraws the
                           contribution or defined benefit plans                       funds for nonqualified expenses will be taxed
                       C. they are covered under ERISA                                 on the entire amount of the withdrawal plus a
                       D. with defined benefit plans, the employee bears               10% penalty
                           the investment risk
                                                                               54. Keogh Plans are qualified plans intended for those
                   51. Qualified annuity plans offered under Section               with self-employment income and owner-employ-
                       403(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, referred to            ees of unincorporated businesses or professional
                       as tax-sheltered annuities (TSAs), are not avail-           practices filing a Form 1040 Schedule C with the
                       able to                                                     IRS. Which of the following statements relating to
                                                                                   the Keogh Plan is NOT true?
                       A. a public school custodian
                       B. a church minister                                        A. Owner-employee businesses and professional
                       C. a nurse at a nonprofit hospital                              practices must show a gross profit in order to
                       D. a student at a nonprofit college                             qualify for a tax-deductible contribution.
                                                                                   B. A participant in a Keogh Plan may also
                                                                                       maintain an IRA.
                                                                                   C. The maximum allowable contribution to a
                                                                                       Keogh Plan is substantially higher than that
                                                                                       for an IRA.
                                                                                   D. A former corporate employee who decides to
                                                                                       become self-employed may not rollover any
                                                                                       distributions from a qualified corporate plan
                                                                                       into a rollover IRA if he has created a Keogh
                                                                                       Plan.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 635                                                                                                         7/15/2016 2:03:36 PM
        636        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition



        55. An employer whose 401(k) plan complies with                      59. A basic difference between a Section 457 plan
            ERISA Section 404 is placing investment risk                         established on behalf of a governmental entity and
            with the                                                             one established by a private tax-exempt organiza-
            A. Internal Revenue Service                                          tion is that
            B. plan fiduciary                                                    A. a governmental plan must hold its assets in
            C. plan participant                                                      trust or custodial accounts for the benefit of
            D. Securities and Exchange Commission                                    individual participants
                                                                                 B. a tax-exempt plan participant does not have
        56. Which of the following individuals is clearly eli-                       to include plan distributions in his or her
            gible to make a catch-up contribution?                                   taxable income
            A. Roger, who has completed 1 year of service                        C. a governmental plan cannot make a
            B. Emily, who is fully vested                                            distribution before the participant attains age
            C. Sam, who has completed 15 years of service                            70½
            D. Hannah, who is 55 years old                                       D. a tax exempt plan’s distributions are not
                                                                                     eligible for a favorable lump sum 10-year
        57. Which of the following statements regarding                              averaging treatment
            Coverdell ESAs and QTPs is NOT correct?
                                                                             60. Which of the following could reduce the amount
            A. If a portion or all of the withdrawal (QTP) is
                                                                                 that an individual may contribute to a Traditional
               spent on anything other than qualified higher
                                                                                 IRA?
               education expenses, the distributee will be
               taxed at her own tax rate on the earnings                          I. Roth IRA contributions made for the year
               portion of the withdrawal.                                        II. High income level
            B. Coverdell ESAs currently permit up to $5,000                     III. Participation in an employer-sponsored plan
               in annual contributions, whereas QTPs                            IV. Marital status
               allow large contributions reaching as high as                     A. I only
               $250,000 and above.                                               B. I and II
            C. QTPs are extremely useful tools that provide                      C. I, II and III
               significant tax savings, allow for substantial                    D. I, II, III and IV
               investments for a child’s education and
               provide a tool for avoidance of gift and estate               61. A person providing which of the following ser-
               taxes if used correctly.                                          vices to an ERISA plan would be performing in a
            D. Coverdell ESAs are designed to offer tax                          fiduciary capacity?
               benefits to those individuals who wish to                         A. Selecting and monitoring third-party service
               save money for a child/grandchild’s higher                            providers
               education expenses.                                               B. Determining the age at which benefits are to
                                                                                     be provided
        58. Under the minimum distribution rules, Jason is re-                   C. Amending the plan
            quired to take a minimum distribution of $10,000                     D. Changing the level of employer contributions
            this year from his IRA. However, a distribution
            of only $8,000 has been made. What is the dollar                 62. While in your office, you see that your firm is go-
            amount of penalty that may be assessed in this                       ing to be holding a training session on municipal
            situation?                                                           fund securities. You wish to attend because you are
            A. $200                                                              interested in being able to speak intelligently to
            B. $1,000                                                            your clients about
            C. $2,000                                                            A. the difference between GO bonds and revenue
            D. $4,000                                                                bonds
                                                                                 B. the difference between using mutual funds or
                                                                                     UITs to invest in municipal bonds
                                                                                 C. Section 529 Plans
                                                                                 D. Section 457 Plans




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 636                                                                                                             7/15/2016 2:03:36 PM
                                                                                                                Unit 4 Unit Test       637



                   63. All of these are true about a traditional 401(k)       67. Which of the following regarding customer ac-
                       plan EXCEPT                                                counts is NOT true?
                       A. in service employees may be eligible for                A. Stock held in a custodial account may not be
                           hardship withdrawals                                      registered in the name of the minor.
                       B. employees can choose from a variety of                  B. In some cases, a TOD account is referred to as
                           investment options                                        a POD account.
                       C. employees may have a portion of their                   C. Stock held under JTWROS goes to the
                           contribution matched by the employer                      survivor(s) in the event of the death of one of
                       D. the employer can contribute more than 25%                  the tenants.
                           of total payroll                                       D. Margin trading in a fiduciary account does not
                                                                                     require any special documentation.
                   64. Which of the following would you expect to see
                       in the investment policy statement of a qualified      68. An investor wants to provide for his 3 nephews
                       plan?                                                      after his brother dies. Under the UGMA, the
                        I. The information in the summary plan                    investor may open
                           document specified by the Department of                A. 1 account for all 3 nephews
                           Labor                                                  B. 3 separate accounts and deposit cash and
                       II. The method to be used to measure the                       securities
                           investment performance of the plan                     C. 3 separate accounts and deposit insurance
                      III. A listing of the portfolio assets as of the most           policies
                           recent quarter                                         D. 3 separate accounts and deposit fixed annuities
                      IV. Investment limitations placed on the portfolio
                           managers                                           69. Which of the following individuals may not open
                       A. I and III                                               a joint account?
                       B. I and IV                                                A. 2 spouses
                       C. II and III                                              B. 3 sisters
                       D. II and IV                                               C. 2 strangers
                                                                                  D. Parent and a minor
                   65. Which of the following persons are considered
                       fiduciaries?                                           70. One of your clients enters a sell stop order at 60,
                         I. Executor of an estate                                 limit 59. Subsequent to the entry of the order,
                       II. Administrator of a trust                               trades occur at 61, 61.10, 60, 58.95, 59, 60. The
                      III. Custodian of an UGMA/UTMA account                      client’s order was most likely filled at
                      IV. Conservator for a legally incompetent person            A. 58.95
                       A. I and II                                                B. 59
                       B. I, II and III                                           C. 60
                       C. III and IV                                              D. 61.10
                       D. I, II, III and IV
                                                                              71. In this industry, many words have similar meaning.
                   66. If a customer would like to open a custodial               Which of the following choices consists of a pair
                       UGMA or UTMA account for his nephew, a                     which are NOT properly considered synonyms?
                       minor, the uncle can                                       A. Inflation risk—purchasing power risk
                       A. open the account provided the proper trust              B. Interest rate risk—money rate risk
                            arrangements are filed first                          C. Financial risk—market risk
                       B. open the account and name himself custodian             D. Liquidity risk—marketability risk
                       C. open the account, but he needs a legal
                            document evidencing the nephew’s parents’
                            prior approval of the account
                       D. be custodian for the account only if he is also
                            the minor’s legal guardian




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 637                                                                                                         7/15/2016 2:03:37 PM
        638        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition



        72. There are number of potential sources of income                  74. Regarding the treatment of estates by the IRS, it
            to a client that would have to reported on their                     would not be correct to state any of the following
            Form 1040 tax return. Among them could be all of                     EXCEPT
            these EXCEPT                                                         A. estates may be valued either at date of death
            A. death benefit received from a life insurance                         or 9 months later using the alternative
                 policy                                                             valuation option
            B. operation of a sole proprietorship                                B. a deceased person may reduce the value of the
            C. ownership of stock in an S corporation                               estate by taking advantage of the annual gift
            D. interests in a DPP                                                   tax exclusion
                                                                                 C. income received by the estate is reported on
        73. A participant in an ERISA qualified retirement                          Form 1040
            plan is studying the investment policy statement                     D. the maximum tax rate on estates is the same as
            (IPS) prepared by the plan’s fiduciary. The con-                        that on gifts
            tents of the IPS would not include
            A. determination for meeting future cash flow                    75. While attending a seminar given by one of your
                needs                                                            firm’s analysts, you hear the term, feasible set. That
            B. specific security selection                                       would mean the discussion was dealing with the
            C. investment philosophy including asset                             topic of
                allocation style                                                 A. the efficient frontier
            D. methods for monitoring procedures and                             B. convexity
                performance                                                      C. a range of returns
                                                                                 D. opportunity cost




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 638                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:03:37 PM
                                                                                                     Unit 4 Answers and Rationales       639




                          A N S W E R S             A N D        R A T I O N A L E S

                     1. C. John’s investment in the yacht-building              6. C. The yield to maturity reflects the
                           business suffered a loss as a result of                    annualized return of a bond if it is held
                           legislative risk. In other words, the rules of             to its maturity. The computation reflects
                           the game (i.e., tax laws) changed after John               internal rate of return and is frequently
                           purchased the security.                                    referred to as the market required rate
                                                                                      of return for a debt security. The rate set
                     2. C. This imposing-looking question should take                 at issuance and printed on the face of
                           10 seconds to do. When the question is                     the bond is the nominal or coupon rate.
                           dealing with volatility, look for the standard             Dividing the coupon rate by the current
                           deviation. The portfolio with the lowest                   market price of the bond provides the
                           (choice C at 10.02) is the least volatile, the             current yield. The return of a bond if it is
                           one with the highest (choice A at 12.25) is                held to the call date is the yield to call.
                           the most volatile.
                                                                                7.   B. In an efficient market, all participants have
                     3. C. The return from a security can be adjusted                   equal access to information and, therefore,
                           for the risk associated with it by subtracting               stock prices reflect that equality almost
                           the risk-free rate from the security’s actual                immediately.
                           return and then dividing that by its
                           standard deviation, the basic measure of             8. C. The expected return is the estimate of
                           unsystematic risk. This is commonly known                  probable returns that an investment may
                           as the Sharpe ratio.                                       yield when added up.

                     4. D. To determine the total return on this zero-          9. A. First, compute Dan’s after-tax rate of
                           coupon debt obligation, the $50 capital                    return of 10.95% as follows: .15 × (1 −
                           appreciation is divided by the cost of the                 .27), or .73 = .1095. Then, compute Dan’s
                           bond, in this case $950, for a total return                inflation-adjusted, or real, rate of return by
                           of 5.26%. Total return of a zero-coupon                    subtracting the 3% inflation rate from his
                           security is made up entirely of the difference             10.95% after-tax return.
                           between the cost of the security and its sale
                           or maturity price. The market price of the          10.   B. Because dollar-weighted returns reflect
                           security, not current interest rates, is used in             the individual investor’s cash deposits and
                           the calculation of total return. Five percent                withdrawals from the investment account,
                           would be the return had the debt obligation                  it is the preferred measure of return for
                           cost 100, or par. There is no coupon rate to                 them. On the other hand, time-weighted
                           be added to the calculation.                                 returns are generally a more important tool
                                                                                        to show portfolio manager performance.
                     5.      B. Duration measures a bond’s sensitivity to
                                a change in interest rates. The longer the     11. D. Sector rotation is the practice of moving
                                duration, the greater the change in a bond’s          out of those industries that are heading for
                                price with respect to interest rate changes.          a decline and into those whose fortunes are
                                                                                      likely to rise as the economy follows the
                                                                                      business cycle.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 639                                                                                                           7/15/2016 2:03:37 PM
        640        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition



        12. A. With the barbell strategy, the investor                       20. C. A client’s educational level is not as
               would place $25,000 into bonds maturing                              important as retirement, death and
               in 10 years and the other half into bonds                            disability, and current income. However,
               maturing in two years. This makes $25,000                            the adviser should take note of the client’s
               available for reinvestment in two years                              educational level to ensure that the
               enabling the investor to take advantage of                           client fully understands the investments
               the higher rates (if they materialize).                              recommended. Also, a person with a
                                                                                    professional educational background may
        13. D. Total return is all distributions plus/minus                         have more employment opportunities and
               appreciation/depreciation. In this question,                         be able to take more risk as a result.
               the $1,300 includes the $250 capital gain so
               all we add is the $20 dividend. $320 divided                  21. C. Only the estate administrator or executor
               by $1,000 equals 32% total return.                                   can make investment management and
                                                                                    distribution decisions. This does not
        14. C. Regardless of the investment, buy and hold                           mean that the executor must manage the
               is always a passive strategy. All of the others                      account, only that decisions as to who will
               involve some degree of continual activity                            do the management are within his purview.
               on behalf of the investor.                                           A guardian with authority over the
                                                                                    children does not necessarily have power
        15. C. Although either party may enter an order,                            over the estate unless the guardian is also
               any money or securities delivered out of                             the administrator or the executor of the
               the account must be in the names of both                             estate.
               owners.
                                                                             22. C. The trustee can be reimbursed for trustee
        16.     B. The decedent’s estate becomes a tenant in                        expenses that are reasonable. A trust
                   common with the survivors.                                       account must be managed by the trustee
                                                                                    and not by the beneficiary. Only the
        17. D. Each of these persons is in a relationship                           trustee can withdraw funds, provided the
               of trust to the customer and is therefore a                          withdrawal is done in a manner consistent
               fiduciary.                                                           with the trust document. Trust funds must
                                                                                    be placed in custodial accounts, not in
        18. C. Any adult can give a gift to a minor in a                            noncustodial accounts.
               custodial account. There is no limitation
               on the size of the gift. However, any gift in                 23. C. A passive investment style uses index funds
               excess of $14,000 (or such higher number                             because the manager does not believe that
               as indexing provides for) will possibly                              returns above the averages can be sustained
               subject the donor to a gift tax liability.                           for any length of time because the market
                                                                                    is efficiently priced. Use of index funds
        19.     B. The only types of accounts that may have                         in conjunction with specific securities in
                   the Transfer on Death (TOD) designation                          order to overweight sectors is an active
                   are individual and JTWROS. Minors can                            style. Investment in small capitalization
                   not designate a beneficiary. Upon the                            technology securities involves actively
                   death of a minor, any assets belong in the                       selecting securities that the manager
                   deceased’s estate.                                               believes will perform well or better than the
                                                                                    market. Value investing involves the active
                                                                                    search for securities that are undervalued by
                                                                                    the market.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 640                                                                                                          7/15/2016 2:03:37 PM
                                                                                                   Unit 4 Answers and Rationales       641



                   24. D. The investment adviser representative             29. C. Distributable Net Income (DNI) is
                          must consider a client’s volatility tolerance,           dividends and interest plus capital gains
                          investment time frame, liquidity needs, and              that have not been reinvested back into
                          comfort with different types of investments.             the trust. In this case, $24,000 + $35,000 +
                          These are all elements in the understanding              $28,000 = $87,000.
                          of a customer’s attitude toward risk.
                                                                            30. C. Marginal tax rate is defined as the rate of
                   25. A. An investment adviser representative must                taxation on any additional taxable income
                          not draft estate documents. This should                  received. It is sometimes referred to as
                          only be drafted by an attorney because it                the tax on the “next” dollar or the “last”
                          constitutes practicing law. An investment                dollar of income. The effective tax rate is
                          adviser representative should, however,                  the overall rate paid on the total taxable
                          discuss tax implications of investments as a             income.
                          way of improving a client’s after-tax returns.
                                                                            31. D. The IRS allows deductions for expenses
                   26. C. Dollar cost averaging involves investing a               relating to owning rental property if
                          set amount of money each interval. If the                personal use does not exceed the greater of
                          market fluctuates, this will cause the client            14 days or 10% of the total days that the
                          to buy more shares when the prices are low               property is in rental use. For example, if the
                          and fewer shares when prices are high. The               client had the property rented out for 200
                          result of this is a lower average cost per               days, he could make personal use of it for up
                          share than average price paid. An investor               to 20 days that year and still be able to treat
                          who sells shares when the market rises and               the rental as a business.
                          buys shares when the market declines is not
                          dollar cost averaging, but is attempting to       32. A. One of the risks in setting up a GRAT is
                          time the market. An investor who averages                that if the grantor dies during the term of
                          the cost of the shares purchased and then                the trust (usually 3–10 years), the assets put
                          enters limit orders to purchase additional               in the GRAT, plus any appreciation, are
                          shares at the average price is not engaged               included in her estate.
                          in a dollar cost averaging program. In dollar
                          cost averaging, the same dollar amount is         33.   B. Dollar cost averaging (DCA) is a funding
                          invested each interval.                                    method that consists of investing the same
                                                                                     amount of money at fixed intervals into the
                   27. A. Earned income includes salary and bonus                    same investment. Almost all participants
                          but not income as an owner of a limited                    in 401(k) plans use DCA. It is possible
                          partnership. Passive income is derived from                that the portfolio managers of the large-cap
                          rental property, limited partnerships, and                 fund use a tactical style, but the investor
                          enterprises in which an individual is not                  is not buying and selling to try to time the
                          actively involved.                                         market.

                   28. A. The balance sheet contains assets and             34.   B. When a primary residence that has been
                          liabilities as of a specific point in time.                lived in for at least 2 of the 5 years is sold at
                          Personal property currently owned, such as                 a profit, the first $250,000 for an individual
                          jewelry, is an asset. A loan still outstanding,            and the first $500,000 for a married couple
                          such as the car loan and the debt to the                   is not subject to taxation. Everything in
                          dentist, are liabilities. The amount already               excess of that is taxed as capital gain on
                          paid for the Botox injections is no longer                 Schedule D of the Form 1040.
                          on the balance sheet.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 641                                                                                                         7/15/2016 2:03:37 PM
        642        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition



        35. C. A specialist is a member of the NYSE who                      40. D. The dealer’s quote represents the bid and
               executes orders for other members and who                            the offer (ask) prices. This quote is 42 bid
               also acts as a market maker charged with                             and 42.50 offered. The difference between
               the responsibility of keeping an orderly                             these two is the spread.
               market in designated stocks. A specialist
               must have sufficient capital to buy and sell                  41.   B. The specialist performs his activities on
               from his own account in order to maintain                              the floor of an exchange, while the market
               a liquid and orderly market. A trader who                              maker performs a similar function in the
               makes a market in OTC stocks and ADRs                                  OTC market.
               is a market maker in the OTC market and
               not a specialist on an exchange. A specialist                 42. C. When a purchase is made and only 50% of
               executes trades on an exchange.                                      the cost of the transaction is required, the
                                                                                    trade is being made on margin.
        36. C. A market order does not reflect or restrict
               the price at which a security is executed.                    43.   B. The original call for funds is the
               A limit order limits the amount to be paid                             Regulation T or margin call. When the
               or received for securities. A stop order                               call is for additional money, it is known as
               becomes a market order if the stock reaches                            maintenance margin.
               or goes through the stop price. A stop limit
               order becomes a limit order if the stock hits                 44. C. The term block trade refers to a transaction
               or goes through the trigger price.                                   involving a minimum of 10,000 shares.

        37.     B. When selling a security to a public                       45. D. Under ERISA, a fiduciary is not limited to
                   customer, the broker-dealer adds his markup                      confining investments to only those most
                   to the ask/offer (not the bid) price. A                          likely to achieve growth. The fiduciary
                   broker does not add a markup to the bid                          is required to diversify investments so
                   price when offering shares to a client. The                      as to minimize the risk of losses, unless
                   broker-dealer would mark down the bid                            doing so is clearly not prudent under the
                   price. A broker-dealer does not usually                          circumstances.
                   have to disclose to the client the amount
                   of markup on a client’s confirmation                      46.   B. The income and capital gains earned in
                   statement. If a commission were charged,                           the account are tax deferred until the
                   however, it would have to be indicated on                          funds are withdrawn. A traditional IRA
                   the confirmation statement.                                        allows a maximum tax-deductible annual
                                                                                      contribution of $5,500 per individual
        38.     B. Buy stop orders are placed above the                               ($6,500 for those age 50 and older),
                   current market price and are usually used                          not $2,500 per individual. Distributions
                   by those with short positions. As prices                           without penalty may begin after age 59½
                   increase, these stop orders are triggered,                         and must begin by April 1 of the year
                   sending more buy orders to the trading                             following the year an individual turns 70½.
                   floors.                                                            Distributions before age 59½ are subject to
                                                                                      a 10% penalty and subject to taxes.
        39. C. A dealer’s quotes consist of the bid and
               the offer. The bid price is what the dealer
               will pay a customer to purchase a security,
               and the offer is the dealer’s selling price.
               In this case, the client wishes to purchase
               bonds, so the 98.16 represents the price the
               dealer is offering them for. Yes, the quote
               is a discount, but the better answer for this
               question is offer.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 642                                                                                                           7/15/2016 2:03:37 PM
                                                                                               Unit 4 Answers and Rationales       643



                   47. C. IRAs and Keogh plans do not have                50. D. With defined benefit plans, the employer
                          identical contribution amounts; IRAs                   (not the employee) bears the investment
                          allow a maximum of $5,500 per individual               risk. The employer must fund the defined
                          or $11,000 per couple per year, whereas                benefits, regardless of the investment
                          Keogh plans allow substantially more.                  performance of funds set aside for
                          Both IRAs and Keoghs allow tax-deferred                this purpose. The retiree receives a
                          growth until the individual withdraws the              defined benefit regardless of investment
                          funds. IRAs and Keoghs have premature                  performance. All corporate pension and
                          distribution penalties before age 59½.                 profit-sharing plans must be established
                          Once the participant reaches 70½,                      under a trust agreement. All qualified
                          required minimum distributions must be                 retirement plans are either defined
                          made or a 50% tax penalty will be assessed.            contribution or defined benefit plans.

                   48. C. Gems, intangibles, and works of art             51. D. 403(b) plans are available to employees
                          are ineligible investments for an IRA.                 of nonprofit 501(c)(3) schools, not
                          Covered call writing is allowed, but                   students. 403(b) plans are also available
                          speculative options strategies are not.                to employees of public educational
                          Bank CDs are permissible investments                   institutions such as schools. Church
                          for an IRA. Growth-oriented securities                 organization employees are allowed
                          and securities in general are appropriate              403(b) plans. Employees of tax-exempt
                          investment vehicles for IRAs.                          institutions such as private colleges,
                                                                                 research and scientific foundations, private
                   49. A. Any individual withdrawing $10,000 from                hospitals, and medical schools are allowed
                          his IRA to purchase his first principal                to establish 403(b) plans.
                          residence would have the penalty waived.
                          The wealth of the individual is not             52. D. A fiduciary can receive compensation
                          relevant. The purchase must be a first-time            from the sponsor of the plan for acting as a
                          purchase as well as the primary residence. A           trustee, if fees are reasonable and consistent
                          single parent who withdraws funds from her             with duties performed. A fiduciary may not
                          IRA to pay for the education of a nephew               sell a real estate investment to the plan at
                          will pay a 10% tax penalty. Educational                the going market rate. Such self-dealing
                          withdrawals are limited to the taxpayer                presents a conflict of interest regardless of
                          or a spouse, child, or grandchild. A single            the terms of the transaction. A fiduciary
                          parent who supplements a home equity                   may not participate in a transaction on
                          loan with funds from her IRA to pay for an             the plan’s behalf that involves a party with
                          additional home will pay a penalty because             interests adverse to those of the plan in
                          only a primary residence can be purchased              order to ensure favorable terms for the plan.
                          with early withdrawal funds. A person                  The situation is self-dealing and presents
                          who withdraws funds from his IRA to buy                a conflict of interest prohibited under
                          a principal residence after he sold his first          ERISA. Offers of reduced commissions to
                          home as a result of medical expenses will              the plan for transactions that are executed
                          pay a penalty because the purchase is not              through his employing financial institution
                          for his first principal residence.                     are prohibited and a conflict of interest.

                                                                          53. D. The tax and 10% penalty is only levied
                                                                                 against earnings since the contributions
                                                                                 were made with after-tax dollars.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 643                                                                                                     7/15/2016 2:03:37 PM
        644        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition



        54. D. Rollovers are permitted into an IRA                           60. A. The maximum annual contribution
               regardless of any plans maintained. Tax-                             applies as a total among your Roth and
               deductible contributions are not allowed                             your traditional IRA. So, if the maximum
               unless there is potentially taxable income                           is $5,500 and you put $3,000 into your
               against which to deduct. Anyone with                                 Roth, you could only put $2,500 into your
               earned income may have an IRA, regardless                            traditional IRA. You could do a total of
               of participation in another qualified plan,                          $6,500 if you were 50 or older. High income
               and the Keogh Plan contribution limits are                           level and participation in an employer-
               much higher than those for an IRA.                                   sponsored plan will impact the amount you
                                                                                    may deduct but not the amount you may
        55. C. In a 401(k) plan, a plan sponsor can shift                           contribute. Even though a married couple
               investment risk to the employee by com­                              can have their own IRAs or set up a spousal
               plying with ERISA Section 404(c) rules.                              IRA if one is nonworking, that doesn’t
                                                                                    reduce the amount that either spouse can
        56. D. Catch-up contributions are allowed to                                contribute.
               participants who are age 50 and over.
                                                                             61. A. The issue here is the distinction between
        57.     B. Coverdell ESAs currently permit up to                            fiduciary functions and something called
                   $2,000 (2015) in annual contributions,                           settlor functions. ERISA defines fiduciary
                   whereas QTPs (Section 529 Plans) allow                           not in terms of formal title but rather in
                   large contributions reaching as high as                          functional terms of control and authority
                   $250,000 and above. When nonqualifying                           over the plan. ERISA provides that a
                   distributions are taken, any taxes are the                       person is a fiduciary with respect to an
                   responsibility of the distributee, defined by                    employee benefit plan to the extent that
                   the IRS as the beneficiary (student) of the                      such a person does any of the following:
                   plan.                                                            exercises any discretionary authority or
                                                                                    control over the management of a plan
        58.     B. The penalty for failure to make the correct                      or over the management or disposition
                   amount of required minimum distribution                          of plan assets; renders investment advice
                   is 50% of the difference between the                             for a fee or other compensation, direct or
                   minimum required amount and the actual                           indirect, with respect to any monies or
                   distribution. In this case, this would be 50%                    other property of such plan; or has any
                   of $2,000 ($10,000 − $8,000) or $1,000.                          discretionary authority or discretionary
                                                                                    responsibility in the administration of
        59. A. A governmental Section 457 plan must be                              such plan including appointing other plan
               funded, that is, it must hold plan assets in                         fiduciaries or selecting and monitoring
               trusts or custodial accounts for the benefit                         third-party service providers. The other
               of individual participants. Conversely, a                            choices given in the question are known as
               tax-exempt (nongovernmental) Section                                 settlor functions. The most common settlor
               457 plan may not be funded.                                          functions are design decisions involving:
                                                                                    establishment of the plan, defining who are
                                                                                    the covered employees and benefits to be
                                                                                    provided, and amending or terminating the
                                                                                    plan. Because the likelihood of an IAR ever
                                                                                    performing settlor functions is quite remote
                                                                                    (usually they are done by employees of the
                                                                                    sponsoring employer), I cannot fathom why
                                                                                    NASAA would ask something like this on
                                                                                    the exam.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 644                                                                                                         7/15/2016 2:03:37 PM
                                                                                                    Unit 4 Answers and Rationales       645



                   62. C. The Securities and Exchange Commission              68.   B. UGMA rules require that any UGMA
                          has stated that certain Section 529 College                  account have only one beneficial owner
                          Savings Plans established by states or local                 and one custodian. Cash and securities may
                          governmental entities are municipal fund                     be donated into the account, but insurance
                          securities. Accordingly, the purchase and                    contracts and fixed annuities may not.
                          sale of state-sponsored Section 529 Plans
                          are governed by the rules of the Municipal          69. D. A minor may not be a party in a joint
                          Securities Rulemaking Board (MSRB).                        account because minors cannot legally
                                                                                     exercise control over an account. A
                   63. D. There are exceptions to this, but, in                      custodial account should be set up for the
                          general (and on the exam), you will have                   minor.
                          to know that the employer share of the
                          contributions to a traditional 401(k) plan          70.   B. This is really two orders. The first is to
                          (or any other DC plan) may not exceed                        “stop” at 60. That is, once the stock trades
                          25% of total payroll. Some students get                      at 60 or lower, enter the order. The second
                          this correct through process of elimination.                 order is a sell, but with a limit of 59. In
                          The plan may have provisions for hardship                    this sequence, the first time the stock hits
                          withdrawals; there are a number of                           60 (or less), is the 3rd trade, the one at 60.
                          investment options available, and the                        That triggers the sell limit. The next trade
                          employer may elect to match employee                         is at 58.95 and that is not acceptable to the
                          contributions.                                               limit order at 59. Why not? Because the
                                                                                       limit order is saying, “get me 59 or higher”;
                   64. D. The IPS would include information on                         that makes the following trade at 59 an
                          how the investment performance of the                        acceptable price.
                          plan is measured as well as the investment
                          parameters to be followed by the portfolio          71. C. Financial risk is an unsystematic risk;
                          managers. It would not include the                         generally, the concern that an issuer will be
                          summary plan description (document),                       unable to meet its debt obligations as they
                          generally referred to by the initials SPD.                 come due. It could be paired with either
                          That is for the employees’ to learn about                  credit risk or default risk. Market risk is a
                          eligibility, vesting, matching contributions,              systematic risk.
                          etc. It has nothing to do with how the
                          money is invested. The purpose of the IPS           72. A. An individual can generate income from
                          is to set “policy” for the portfolio, not to list          running a sole proprietorship or being
                          its composition.                                           a shareholder in an S corporation (the
                                                                                     exam will possibly use the obsolete term,
                   65. D. All of the persons listed have fiduciary                   Subchapter S). And, if units of a DPP
                          responsibilities because of the authority                  throw off income, that would be reported
                          with which they are entrusted.                             as well. Of course, taxable income can be
                                                                                     generated by investments in the form of
                   66.       B. The donor may name himself the custodian             dividends, interest, and capital gains from
                                of an UGMA or UTMA account. No                       any source. The death benefit is from a
                                documentation of custodial status is                 life insurance policy and those, unlike the
                                required to open an UGMA account, and                death benefit from an annuity, are not
                                the custodian is not required to be the              subject to income tax. Depending on how
                                minor’s legal guardian.                              the ownership is structured, the death
                                                                                     benefit could be subject to estate tax, but
                   67. D. Trading on margin is prohibited in                         that would be reported on the Form 706
                          fiduciary accounts except under special                    and is generally not considered income.
                          circumstances and with the appropriate
                          documentation.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 645                                                                                                          7/15/2016 2:03:37 PM
        646        Series 66 Uniform Combined State Law Exam, 10th Edition



        73.     B. One thing that could never be in an IPS                   75. A. The feasible set of portfolios represents all
                   is a listing of the securities that will be                      portfolios that can be constructed from a
                   purchased in the future. Types of securities,                    given set of stocks. An efficient portfolio
                   yes, but not the specific ones.                                  is a feasible portfolio that provides the
                                                                                    greatest expected return for a given amount
        74. D. The maximum tax rate on estates and gifts                            of risk, or equivalently, the least risk for
               is 40%. The alternative valuation date is 6                          a given amount of expected return. This
               months after death; 9 months after death                             is also called an optimal portfolio. The
               is when the tax is due. Dead people can’t                            efficient frontier is the set of all efficient
               make gifts and any income received by the                            portfolios. Obviously, an investor should
               estate before it is liquidated is reported on                        choose a portfolio along the efficient
               Form 1041.                                                           frontier.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 646                                                                                                           7/15/2016 2:03:37 PM
                             Appendix A
                             Federal vs. State Comparison Chart


                                                             FEDERAL             VERSUS           STATE LAW
                                                                       Definition of Investment Adviser
                    Any person who, for compensation, engages in the business          Same as federal.
                    of advising others as to the value of securi­ties or the
                    advisability of investing in securities or, as part of a regular
                    business, issues analyses or reports concerning securities.
                                                                      Exclusions from Above Definition
                    1. Banks                                                           1. Banks
                    2. Lawyers, accountants, teachers, engineers                       2. Lawyers, accountants, teachers, engineers
                    3. Broker-dealers                                                  3. Broker-dealers
                    4. Publisher of any bona fide newspaper, news maga­zine, or        4. Publishers of any bona fide newspaper, news magazine,
                       other publication of general circulation                           newsletter, or other publication that does not consist of the
                                                                                          rendering of advice on the basis of the specific investment
                    5. Any person whose advice relates solely to securities issued
                                                                                          situation of each client
                       or guaranteed by the U.S. government
                                                                                       5. Investment adviser representatives

                                                                                  Exemptions
                    1. The Private Fund adviser exemption is available for             1. Private Fund adviser exemption more restrictive than federal
                       advisers with less than $150 million in assets under               law.
                       management for private equity funds.                            2. Adviser has no place of business within that state and
                    2. The only clients are insurance companies.                          a. The only clients are institutions such as invest­ment
                    3. Intrastate business only and does not furnish advice                  companies, banks and trust companies, insurance
                       with respect to securities listed on any national securities          companies, broker-dealers and other investment advisers,
                       exchange, and do not have any private funds as clients.               $1 million or larger employee benefit plans, governmental
                                                                                             agency, or instrumentalities; or
                                                                                          b. Does not direct communications to more than five clients
                                                                                             in the state (other than those above) during the previous
                                                                                             12 months (de minimis).
                                                                                  Registration
                    File Form ADV with the SEC and pay initial and renewal             File Form ADV with the Administrator and pay initial and renewal
                    fees based on their fiscal year. Effective within 45 days.         (12/31) fees. Effective at noon of the 30th day. There are net
                    No net worth requirements. No surety bonds. Withdrawal             worth and/or surety bonds required (custody or discretion).
                    of registration is on 60th day. Successor firm pays fee. No        Withdrawal of registration is on 30th day. Successor firm pays no
                    registration of investment adviser representatives.                fee until renewal. Registration automatically registers any adviser
                                                                                       representative who is a partner, officer, director, or similar in
                                                                                       status.
                                                                                 Recordkeeping
                    Investment adviser records must be kept easily accessible for      Generally three years for broker-dealers and five years for
                    five years.                                                        investment advisers.
                                                                                Fines/Penalties
                    $10,000 and five years in jail                                     $5,000 and three years in jail




                                                                                                                                                           647




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 647                                                                                                                           7/15/2016 2:03:37 PM
     648        Appendix A




                                                              Custody of Customer Funds/Securities
               Kept by Qualified Custodian. It is custody if securities and/       If not prohibited, with written notice to the Administrator.
               or checks are not returned or forwarded within three days.          Requires minimum net worth or surety bond of $35,000. It is
               Third-party checks are not custody. An audited balance sheet        custody if securities or checks are not returned and third-party
               would be required if adviser takes advance fees of more than        checks forwarded within three business days. An audited balance
               $1,200, six months or more in advance, but not when the             sheet would be required if adviser takes fees of more than $500,
               adviser maintains custody.                                          six or more months in advance or the adviser maintains custody.
                                                                           Performance Fees
               Prohibited unless:                                                  Same as federal law, except must make risk incentive statement
                                                                                   and other disclosures.
               1. contract with investment company
               2. certain clients with at least $1 million under management
                  or net worth in excess of $2 million.
                                                               Statute of Limitations for Civil Action
               Sooner of three years after the sale or one year after              Sooner of three years after the sale or two years after discovery.
               discovery.
                                                                               A “Person”
               A natural person or company (includes a corporation, a              An individual, a corporation, an association, a joint stock
               partnership, an association, a joint stock company, a trust,        company, a trust where the interests of the beneficiaries are
               or any organized group of persons, whether incorporated or          evidenced by a security, an unincorporated organization, a
               not).                                                               government, or a political subdivision of a government.
                                                                        Filing of Advertisements
               No filing with the SEC ever.                                        No filing for exempt securities or exempt transactions, otherwise
                                                                                   filed with the Administrator.
                                                                   Private Placement Exemption
               Sold to up to 35 nonaccredited investors under Rule 506(b).         Up to 10 offers within the state over a 12-month period. The
               Exclusively accredited investors under Rule 506(c).                 term accredited investor is meaningless. Institutions are not
                                                                                   counted nor restricted.
                                                                              Miscellaneous
               No assignment of the advisory contract may be made without Same as federal.
               the client’s consent.
               The adviser, if a partnership, must notify the client of any        Same as federal.
               change in the membership of the partnership within a
               reasonable period of time.
               The Brochure and Brochure Supplement Rule—120-day                   Same as federal except 48-hour in advance rule.
               annual delivery.
               The term investment counsel may not be used unless:                 An investment adviser representative is an associ­ated person of
                                                                                   an adviser firm (not clerical) who:
               1. principal business is investment advice; and
                                                                                   1. makes recommendations or otherwise gives advice;
               2. substantial portion of his service is providing investment
                  supervisory services (the giving of continuous advice on         2. manages accounts of clients;
                  the investment of funds on the basis of the individual           3. solicits or negotiates for the sale of advisory ser­vice; and
                  needs of each client).
                                                                                   4. supervises any of the above.
               May not use initials RIA or IAR on business card or let­terhead. Same as federal.
               Professional or educational designations are okay.
               Insolvency is not a cause for revocation.                           Insolvency is a cause for revocation.
               $110 million or more under management registers with the            Less than $100 million under management generally registers
               SEC. $100–$110 million can do either.                               with the state.
               Registration renewal for IAs within 90 days of fiscal year          Registration renewal for all securities professionals on
                                                                                   December 31
               Register as an IAR only if a place of business in the state; no     Register in the state if retail clients resident in the state; subject to
               de minimis                                                          five or fewer de minimis
               Employee benefit plans $5 million—institution                       Employee benefit plans $1 million—institution




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 648                                                                                                                               7/15/2016 2:03:37 PM
                             Appendix B
                             NASAA Model Rule on Unethical Business Practices
                             of Investment Advisers, Investment Adviser
                             Representatives, and Federal Covered Advisers
                             [with review annotation notes]



                                          T
                                                 he North American Securities Administrators Association
                                                 has adopted a Model Rule on unethical business practices of
                                                 investment advisers and their representatives. This Model Rule is
                                          reproduced here, with review notes included.




                                                                                                                     649




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 649                                                                                     7/15/2016 2:03:38 PM
     650        Appendix B




                                  An investment adviser is a fiduciary and has a duty to act primarily for the benefit of
                             its clients. While the extent and nature of this duty varies according to the nature of the
                             relationship between an investment adviser and its clients and the circumstances of each
                             case, an investment adviser shall not engage in unethical business practices, including
                             the follow­ing:
                             1. Recommending to a client to whom investment supervisory, management or con-
                                sulting services are provided the purchase, sale or exchange of any security without
                                reasonable grounds to believe that the recommendation is suitable for the client on
                                the basis of information furnished by the client after reasonable inquiry concern-
                                ing the client’s investment objec­tives, financial situation and needs, and any other
                                information known by the investment adviser.
                                 Review Note: An investment adviser providing investment supervisory, man­agement,
                                 or consulting services has a fundamental obligation to analyze a client’s financial situation
                                 and needs before making any recommendation to the client. Recommendations made to
                                 a client must be reasonable in relation to the information that is obtained concerning the
                                 client’s investment objective, financial situation and needs, and other information known
                                 by the investment adviser. By failing to make reasonable inquiry or by failing to make rec­
                                 ommendations that are in line with the financial situation, invest­ment objectives, and charac­
                                 ter of a client’s account, an investment adviser has not met its primary responsibility.

                             2. Exercising any discretionary power in placing an order for the purchase or sale of
                                securities for a client without obtaining prior written discretionary authority from
                                the client, unless the discretionary power relates solely to the price at which, or
                                the time when, an order involving a definite amount of a specified security shall be
                                executed, or both.
                                 Review Note: This rule pertains only to investment advisers that place orders for client
                                 accounts. Before placing an order for an account, an investment adviser exercising discre­
                                 tion should have written dis­cretionary authority from the client. In most cases, discretionary
                                 authority is granted in an advisory contract or in a separate docu­ment executed at the time
                                 the contract is executed. The rule permits oral discretionary authority to be used for the initial
                                 transactions in a customer’s account within the first 10 business days after the date of the first
                                 transaction. An investment adviser is not precluded from exercising discretionary power that
                                 relates solely to the price or time at which an order involving a specific amount of a security is
                                 authorized by a customer because time and price do not con­stitute discretion.



                             !
                 TEST TOPIC ALERT                  Be aware of the calendar. The 10-business-day period is equal to two normal
                                              work weeks. If a client opens a discretionary account and gives the OK orally, but
                                              three weeks has passed by since the initial trade and the written authorization has
                                              not been received, the IA can’t exercise discretion in the account, even if not tak-
                                              ing action would cause disastrous results to the client’s portfolio.

                             3. Inducing trading in a client’s account that is excessive in size or frequency in view of
                                the financial resources, investment objectives, and character of the account.
                                 Review Note: This rule is intended to prevent an excessive number of securities trans­
                                 actions from being induced by an investment adviser. There are many situations where an
                                 investment adviser may receive com­missions or be affiliated with a person that receives com­




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 650                                                                                                            7/15/2016 2:03:38 PM
                                                                                                                     Appendix B      651




                                 missions from the securities transactions that are placed by the investment adviser. Because
                                 an adviser in such situations can directly benefit from the number of securities transactions
                                 effected in a client’s account, the rule appropriately forbids an excessive number of transac­
                                 tion orders to be induced by an adviser for a customer’s account.

                             4. Placing an order to purchase or sell a security for the account of a client without
                                authority to do so.
                                 Review Note: This rule is not new to either the securities or investment advisory profes­
                                 sions. An investment adviser must have authority to place any order for the account of a
                                 client. The authority may be obtained from a client orally or in an agreement executed by the
                                 client giving the adviser blanket authority.

                             5. Placing an order to purchase or sell a security for the account of a client upon
                                instruction of a third party without first having obtained a written third-party trad-
                                ing authorization from the client.
                                 Review Note: It is sound business practice for an investment adviser not to place an order
                                 for the account of a customer at the instruction of a third party without first knowing that
                                 the third party has obtained authority from the client for the order. For example, it would be
                                 important for an investment adviser to know that an attorney had power-of-attor­ney over
                                 an estate whose securities the adviser was managing before placing any order at the instruc­
                                 tion of the attorney. Placing orders under such circumstances could result in substantial civil
                                 liability, besides being an unethical practice.

                             6. Borrowing money or securities from a client unless the client is a broker-dealer, an
                                affiliate of the investment adviser, or financial institution engaged in the business of
                                loaning funds.
                                 Review Note: Unless a client of an investment adviser is engaged in the business of loan­
                                 ing money, is an affiliate of the investment adviser, or is an institution that would engage in
                                 this type of activity, an investment adviser must not take advantage of its advisory role by
                                 borrowing funds from a client. A client provides a substantial amount of con­fidential infor­
                                 mation to an investment adviser regarding the client’s financial situation and needs. Using
                                 that information to an invest­ment adviser’s own advantage by borrowing funds is a breach of
                                 confidentiality and may create a material conflict of interest that could influence the advice
                                 rendered by the adviser to the client.

                             7. Loaning money to a client unless the investment adviser is a financial institution
                                engaged in the business of loaning funds or the client is an affiliate of the investment
                                adviser.
                                 Review Note: Like borrowing money from a client, loaning funds to a client by an invest­
                                 ment adviser should not be an allowable practice unless the investment adviser is a financial
                                 institution normally engaged in the business of loaning funds or unless the client is affiliated
                                 with the adviser. Loaning funds may influence decisions made for a client’s account and puts
                                 the investment adviser in a conflict of interest position because the client becomes a debtor of
                                 the adviser after a loan is made.

                             8. To misrepresent to any advisory client, or prospective advi­          sory client, the
                                qualifications of the investment adviser or any employee of the investment adviser, or
                                to misrepresent the nature of the advisory services being offered or fees to be charged




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 651                                                                                                    7/15/2016 2:03:38 PM
     652        Appendix B




                                 for such service, or to omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
                                 made regarding qualifica­tions, services or fees, in light of the circumstances under
                                 which they are made, not misleading.
                                 Review Note: When an investment adviser offers its services to a prospective client or
                                 when it provides services to an existing client, the qualifications of the investment adviser or
                                 any employee of the investment adviser and the nature of the advisory services and the fees
                                 to be charged must be disclosed in such a way as to not mislead. Overstating the qualifica­
                                 tions of the investment adviser or disclosing inaccurately the nature of the advisory services to
                                 be provided or fees to be charged are not ethical ways to either acquire or retain clients.

                             9. Providing a report or recommendation to any advisory client prepared by someone
                                other than the adviser without disclosing the fact. (This prohibition does not apply
                                to a situation where the adviser uses published research reports or statistical analy­
                                ses to render advice or where an adviser orders such a report in the normal course of
                                providing service.)
                                 Review Note: If an investment adviser provides a report to a client that is prepared by a
                                 third party, the adviser has a responsibility to disclose the fact to the client. By entering into
                                 an investment advisory agreement, the client relies on the expertise of the adviser to provide
                                 the advisory service. Thus, if the advice is provided by a third party, it is imperative that the
                                 adviser disclose this fact to the client so the client is not misled. The prohibition does not
                                 apply when an invest-ment adviser gathers and uses research materials before making its
                                 recommendation to a client.

                             10. Charging a client an unreasonable advisory fee.
                                 Review Note: This rule is intended to prohibit an investment adviser from charg­ing an
                                 excessively high advisory fee. Unreasonable as used in this rule means unreasonable in rela­
                                 tion to fees charged by other advisers for similar services. Although no two advisory services
                                 are exactly alike, comparisons can be drawn. In those instances where an advisory fee is out
                                 of line with fees charged by other advisers providing essentially the same services, an invest­
                                 ment adviser should justify the charge. It would be very difficult for a client to compare
                                 various advisory services to evaluate those ser­vices and the fees charged. This rule will allow
                                 state Administrators to research the competitiveness of an adviser’s services and fees, and to
                                 determine whether the fees being charged are unreasonably high.

                             11. Failing to disclose to clients in writing, before any advice is rendered, any material
                                 conflict of interest relating to the adviser or any of its employees which could reason-
                                 ably be expected to impair the rendering of unbiased and objective advice including:
                                 a. Compensation arrangements connected with advisory services to clients which
                                    are in addition to compensation from such clients for such services, and
                                 b. Charging a client an advisory fee for rendering advice when a commission for
                                    executing securities transactions pursuant to such advice will be received by the
                                    adviser or its employees.
                                 Review Note: This rule is designed to require disclosure of all material conflicts of interest
                                 relating to the adviser or any of its employees that could affect the advice that is rendered.
                                 The two examples cited in the rule pertain to compensation arrangements that benefit the
                                 adviser and that are connected with advisory services being provided. However, full disclosure
                                 of all other material conflicts of interest, such as affiliations between the investment adviser
                                 and product suppliers, are also required to be made under the rule.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 652                                                                                                            7/15/2016 2:03:38 PM
                                                                                                                      Appendix B      653




                             12. Guaranteeing a client that a specific result will be achieved (gain or no loss) with
                                 advice which will be rendered.
                                 Review Note: An investment adviser should not guarantee any gain or against loss in con­
                                 nection with advice that is rendered. By doing so, the adviser fails to maintain an arms-length
                                 relationship with a client and puts himself in a conflict of interest position by having a direct
                                 interest in the outcome of the advice rendered by the adviser.

                             13. Publishing, circulating, or distributing any advertisement which does not comply
                                 with the Investment Advisers Act of 1940.
                                 Review Note: An investment adviser should not publish, circulate, or distribute any
                                 advertisement that is inconsistent with federal rules governing the use of advertisements. Rule
                                 206(4)-1 of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 contains prohibitions against advertisements
                                 that contain untrue statements of material fact, that refer directly or indirectly to any testimo­
                                 nial of any kind, that refer to past specific recommendations of the investment adviser unless
                                 certain conditions are met, that represent that a chart or formula or other device being offered
                                 can, by itself, be used to determine which securities are to be bought or sold, or that contain
                                 a statement indicating that any analysis, report, or service will be furnished free when such
                                 is not the case. Third-party use of the “like” feature on an investment adviser’s social media
                                 site could be deemed to be a testimonial if it is an explicit or implicit statement of a client’s
                                 or clients’ experience with an investment adviser or IAR. If, for example, the public is invited
                                 to “like” an IAR’s biography posted on a social media site, that election could be viewed as
                                 a type of testimonial prohibited by the rule. These prohibitions are fundamental and sound
                                 standards that all investment advisers should follow.

                             14. Disclosing the identity, affairs, or investments of any client unless required by law to
                                 do so, or unless consented to by the client.
                                 Review Note: An investment advisory firm has a responsibility to ensure that all informa­
                                 tion collected from a client be kept confidential. The only exception to the rule should be
                                 in those instances where the client authorized the release of such information, or when the
                                 investment advisory firm is required by law to disclose such information.

                             15. Taking any action, directly or indirectly, with respect to those securities or funds in
                                 which any client has any beneficial interest, where the investment adviser has cus-
                                 tody or possession of such securities or funds when the adviser’s action is subject to
                                 and does not comply with the requirements of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940.
                                 Review Note: In instances where an investment adviser has custody or pos­session of cli­
                                 ent’s funds or securities, it should comply with the regulations under the Investment Advisers
                                 Act of 1940 designed to ensure the safekeeping of those securities and funds. The rules under
                                 the act specifically provide that securities of clients be segregated and properly marked, that
                                 the funds of the clients be deposited in separate bank accounts, that the investment adviser
                                 notify each client as to the place and manner in which such funds and securities are being
                                 maintained, that an itemized list of all securities and funds in the adviser’s possession be sent
                                 to the client not less frequently than every three months, and that all such funds and securi­
                                 ties be verified annually by actual examination by an independent CPA on a surprise basis.
                                 The rule establishes very conservative measures to safeguard each client’s funds and securi­ties
                                 held by an investment adviser.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 653                                                                                                     7/15/2016 2:03:38 PM
     654        Appendix B




                             16. Entering into, extending or renewing any investment advisory contract unless such
                                 contract is in writing and discloses, in substance, the services to be provided, the
                                 term of the con­tract, the advisory fee, the formula for computing the fee, the amount
                                 of prepaid fee to be returned in the event of contract termination or non-perfor-
                                 mance, whether the contract grants discretionary power to the adviser and that no
                                 assignment of such contract shall be made by the investment adviser without the
                                 consent of the other party to the contract.
                                Review Note: The purpose of this rule is to ensure that clients have a document to refer
                                to that describes the basic terms of the agreement the client has entered into with an adviser.

                                 The conduct set forth above is not inclusive. Engaging in other conduct such as non-
                             disclosure, incomplete disclosure, or deceptive practices shall be deemed an unethical
                             business practice.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 654                                                                                                        7/15/2016 2:03:38 PM
                             Appendix C
                             Abbreviations, Dates, and Calculations for the Series 66
                             Exam




                                                                                         655




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 655                                                         7/15/2016 2:03:38 PM
                       Common Abbreviations

                   AIR assumed interest rate                               IPO initial public offering
                   APO additional public offering                          IRA individual retirement account
                   ATS alternative trading system                          IRC Internal Revenue Code
                   AUM assets under management                             IRS Internal Revenue Service
                   BA banker’s acceptance                                  JTIC joint tenants in common
                   BCP business continuity plan                            JTWROS joint tenants with right of survivorship
                   BD broker-dealer                                        LIFO last in, first out
                   CD certificate of deposit                               LOI letter of intent
                   CEF closed-end fund                                     MRD minimum required distribution
                   CEO chief executive officer                             MSRB Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board
                   CIP customer identification program                     NASAA North American Securities Administrators
                   CMO collateralized mortgage obligation                      Association
                   CMV current market value                                Nasdaq National Association of Securities Dealers
                   CPI Consumer Price Index                                    Automated Quotation system
                   CTFC Commodity Futures Trading Commission               NAV net asset value
                   CY current yield                                        NIRP negative interest-rate policy
                   DCF discounted cash flow                                NL no load
                   DJIA Dow Jones Industrial Average                       NYSE New York Stock Exchange
                   DMA direct market access                                OTC over the counter
                   DMM Designated Market Maker                             PE price-to-earnings ratio
                   DPP direct participation program                        PII personally identifiable information
                   EE Series EE savings bonds                              POA power of attorney
                   EIA equity index annuity                                POD pay on death
                   ELN equity-linked note                                  POP public offering price
                   EPS earnings per share                                  REIT real estate investment trust
                   ERA exempt reporting adviser                            RF risk-free rate
                   ERISA Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974   SEC Securities and Exchange Commission
                   ETF exchange traded fund                                SEP simplified employee pension plan
                   ETN equity-traded note                                  SIPC Securities Investor Protection Corporation
                   FAC face-amount certificate                             SPO subsequent public offering
                   Fed Federal Reserve System                              SRO self-regulatory organization
                   FDIC Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation              STRIPS Separate Trading of Registered Interest and
                   FIFO first in, first out                                    Principal of Securities
                   FINRA Financial Industry Regulatory Authority           TIC tenants in common
                   FMV fair market value                                   TOD transfer on death
                   FNMA Federal National Mortgage Association              TSA tax-sheltered annuity
                   FOMC Federal Open Market Committee                      TVA Tennessee Valley Authority
                   FRB Federal Reserve Board                               UGMA/UTMA Uniform Gift (Transfers) to Minors Act
                   GDP gross domestic product                              UIT unit investment trust
                   GIC guaranteed investment contract                      UVL universal variable life insurance
                   GNMA Government National Mortgage Association           VLI variable life insurance
                   GO general obligation bond                              YLD yield
                   HFT high frequency trading                              YTC yield to call
                   HNW high net worth                                      YTM yield to maturity
                   IA investment adviser                                   ZIRP zero interest-rate policy
                   IAR investment adviser representative                   ZR zero-coupon
                   IARD Investment Adviser Registration Depository




      656




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 656                                                                                                      7/15/2016 2:03:38 PM
                       Calculations

                             To Calculate…                                Use Formula…


                                                                         Annual dividend
                             Current yield (stock)
                                                                       Current market price


                                                                          Annual interest
                             Current yield (debt security)
                                                                       Current market price


                                                                          Municipal rate
                             Tax-equivalent yield
                                                                      (100% – tax bracket)


                                                                       Total dollars invested
                             Dollar cost average
                                                                   Number of shares purchased


                                                                         Share price total
                             Average market price
                                                                     Number of investments


                             Shareholders’ equity                        Assets – liabilities
                             Total return                        income (dividends or interest) +
                                                                 gain or loss /original investment


                             Annualized return                  Total return on an annualized basis


                             Inflation-adjusted (real) return       Total return minus the CPI


                             After-tax return                   Total return minus the marginal tax
                                                                              bracket


                             Rule of 72                           Divide 72 by known interest rate
                                                                    = number of years to double
                                                                investment; or, divide 72 by known
                                                                   number of years = interest rate
                                                                   required to double investment


                             Arithmetic mean                      Simple average of the numbers


                             Median                              In a group of numbers, the one
                                                                 with an equal above and below,
                                                                  i.e., the number in the middle



                                                                                                            657




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 657                                                                            7/15/2016 2:03:38 PM
     658        Appendix C




                             Mode                   In a group of numbers, the one
                                                       appearing most frequently


                             Range                     In a group of numbers the
                                                    difference between the highest
                                                           and the lowest one


                             Alpha (RF not given)   Actual return – (beta × market
                                                                return)


                             Alpha (RF given)       (Actual return – RF) – (beta ×
                                                        [market return – RF])


                             Sharpe ratio                 actual return – RF
                                                          standard deviation




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 658                                                           7/15/2016 2:03:38 PM
                       Dates

                        48 hours prior to contract             State IAs deliver initial brochure, or 5-day withdrawal without penalty
                        Entering advisory contract             Latest time to delivery IA brochure
                        Same day                               Time limit for execution of a day limit order. Also, time and/or price discre-
                                                               tion only good that day
                        Next business day                      Notification to Administrator that IA’s net worth is insufficient (send details
                                                               the following business day)
                        2 business days                        Maximum and minimum offering prices and underwriting discounts on file
                                                               for coordination
                        3 business days                        Securities or funds received by non-custody IA must be returned to client
                        3 business days                        3rd party checks received by non-custody IA must be forwarded to the 3rd
                                                               party (USA only)
                        4 business days                        Filing Form 8-K
                        5 business days                        Penalty-free cancellation of IA contract if brochure not delivered at least 48
                                                               hours in advance (USA only)
                        7 days                                 Time limit for open-end investment company (mutual fund) to redeem
                                                               shares
                        10 days                                Schedule 13D filing
                        10 days                                SEC can summarily suspend trading in a security
                        10 days after the end of the quarter   Personal transactions of IA or IAR must be recorded
                        10 business days after first trade     Investment advisers may use oral discretion
                        15 days after account approval         Client must return signed options account agreement
                        15 days after written request          Hearing must be granted - Summary order
                        15 days after first sale               File Form D (private placement Rule 506)
                        18th birthday                          Latest date for a Coverdell ESA contribution
                        20 days                                Cooling off period under Securities Act of 1933. Also minimum time Ad-
                                                               ministrator must have documents for coordination
                        30th day                               State registration or withdrawal of securities professionals effective
                        30 days                                Maximum residency under snowbird exemption.
                        30 days                                Time limit within which rescission offer must be accepted or rejected
                        30 days                                Mandatory waiting time to retest (first 2 failures)
                        30 days                                Wash sale rule
                        30 days                                New issues eligible for margin once owned this long
                        35 days                                Full purchase price received by underwriters for any IPO
                        40 days                                Days after end of each quarter to file Form 10-Q
                        45th day                               Federal registration of BDs and IAs effective
                        45 days                                Days after end of each quarter to file Form 13F
                        60th day                               Withdrawal of federal covered adviser on ADV-W
                        60 days                                Time limit to appeal an order under both state and federal law
                        60 days                                Maximum time for tax-free rollover




                                                                                                                                                 659




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 659                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:03:38 PM
     660        Appendix C




               60 days                Maximum termination clause with mutual fund adviser
               60 days                Minimum holding period for qualified dividend
               90 days                After end of fiscal year, IA must file annual updating amendment
               90 days                Minimum holding period for qualified dividend (preferred)
               90 days                State IA with AUM at $110 million or above, must register with SEC
               90 days                Maturity of T-Bill most commonly used as “risk-free” rate
               90 days                Application for registered stock exchange effective or rejected
               90 days                Maximum time a letter of intent (LOI) backdated
               90 days                SEC, with notice to U.S. President, can suspend all trading on an exchange
               120 days               Annual delivery of adviser brochure to clients (if material changes)
               120 days               Time limit for an IA who expects to reach the required AUM to register
                                      with the SEC
               180 days               SEC IA with AUM below $90 million must register with state(s)
               180 days               Mandatory waiting time to retest (3rd and subsequent failures)
               6 months               Alternative valuation date for estate taxes
               9 months (270 days)    Maximum maturity of exempt commercial paper
               9 months after death   Payment of estate taxes is due
               13 months              Maximum time to complete a letter of intent
               397 days               Maximum maturity of any holding in money market mutual fund
               2 years                Records must be kept easily accessible
               3 years                Time period for most records kept by broker-dealers
               5 years                Time period for investment adviser recordkeeping




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 660                                                                                         7/15/2016 2:03:38 PM
                     Glossary
                                              A                                     (1) any analysis, report, or publication concern-
                   accredited investor As defined in Rule 501 of
                                                                                    ing securities, or that is to be used in making any
                       Regulation D, any institution or individual meet-            determination as to when to buy or sell any security,
                       ing minimum net worth requirements for the                   or which security to buy or sell; or (2) any graph,
                       purchase of securities qualifying under the Regu-            chart, formula, or other device to be used in making
                       lation D registration exemption. An individual               any determination as to when to buy or sell any
                       accredited investor is generally accepted to be one          security, or which security to buy or sell; or (3) any
                       who, individually or with spouse, has a net worth,           other investment advisory service with regard to
                       excluding the net equity in the primary residence,           securities.
                                                                                agency basis See agency transaction.
                       of $1 million or more, or has had an annual income
                                                                                agency cross transaction For an advisory client,
                       of $200,000 or more in each of the two most recent
                       years (or $300,000 jointly with a spouse), and who           a transaction in which a person acts as an invest-
                       has a reasonable expectation of reaching the same            ment adviser in relation to a transaction in which
                       income level in the current year.                            that investment adviser, or any person controlling,
                   accumulation stage The period during which con-
                                                                                    controlled by, or under common control with that
                       tributions are made to an annuity account. See ac-           investment adviser, acts as broker for both an advi-
                       cumulation unit; distribution stage.                         sory client and for another person on the other side
                   accumulation unit An accounting measure used to
                                                                                    of the transaction.
                                                                                agency issue A debt security issued by an authorized
                       determine an annuitant’s proportionate interest in
                       the insurer’s separate account during an annuity’s           agency of the federal government. Such an issue is
                       accumulation (deposit) stage. See accumulation               backed by the issuing agency itself, not by the full
                       stage; separate account.                                     faith and credit of the U.S. government (except
                   acid test Syn. acid test ratio. See quick asset ratio.
                                                                                    GNMA issues). See government security.
                                                                                agency transaction A transaction in which a broker-
                   active management style Unlike the passive style,
                       analysts believe they can identify industries that           dealer acts for the accounts of others by buying or
                       are undervalued or overvalued in order to weight             selling securities on behalf of customers. Syn. agen-
                       them appropriately and achieve returns in excess             cy basis. See agent; broker; principal transaction.
                                                                                agent (1) An individual who effects securities trans-
                       of the market. Some managers engage in sector
                       rotation, which is overweighting or underweight-             actions for the accounts of others. (2) Under
                       ing industries based on the current phase of the             state law, a securities salesperson who represents a
                       business cycle. See passive management style; sector         broker-dealer or an issuer when selling or trying to
                       rotation.                                                    sell securities to the investing public; this individual
                   Act of 1933 See Securities Act of 1933.
                                                                                    is considered an agent whether he actually receives
                   Act of 1934 See Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
                                                                                    or simply solicits orders. See broker; broker-dealer;
                   adjusted basis The value attributed to an asset or se-
                                                                                    dealer; principal.
                                                                                aggressive investment strategy A method of
                       curity that reflects any deductions taken on, or capi-
                       tal improvements to, the asset or security. Adjusted         portfolio allocation and management aimed at
                       basis is used to compute the gain or loss on the sale        achieving maximum return. Aggressive investors
                       or other disposition of the asset or security.               place a high percentage of their investable assets
                   adjusted gross income (AGI) Gross income from
                                                                                    in equity securities and a far lower percentage in
                       all sources minus certain adjustments to income,             safer debt securities and cash equivalents, and they
                       such as deductible contributions to an IRA and net           pursue aggressive policies including margin trading,
                       capital losses. It is basically the amount of income         arbitrage, and option trading. See balanced invest-
                       that will be subject to tax. See tax liability.              ment strategy; defensive investment strategy.
                                                                                AGI See adjusted gross income.
                   Administrator An official or agency that administers
                                                                                algorithmic trading Computerized trading using
                       a state’s securities laws.
                   advertisement Any notice, circular, letter, or other
                                                                                    proprietary algorithms. There are two types of
                       written communication addressed to more than one             algorithmic trading. Execution trading is when an
                       person, or any notice or other announcement in               order (often a large order) is executed via an algo-
                       any publication or by radio or television, that offers       rithmic trade. The program is designed to get the


                                                                                                                                                      661




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 661                                                                                                                     7/15/2016 2:03:38 PM
     662        Glossary




                 best possible price. It may split the order into smaller         right to assess the shareholder for the deficiency. All
                 pieces and execute at different times. The second type           stock issued today is nonassessable.
                 of algorithmic trading is not executing a set order but      asset (1) Anything that an individual or a corporation
                 looking for small trading opportunities in the market.           owns. (2) A balance sheet item expressing what a
                 It is estimated that more than 50% of stock trading              corporation owns.
                 volume in the United States is currently being driven        asset class allocation Dividing an investment port-
                 by algorithmic trading. Also known as high-frequency             folio among different asset categories, such as stocks,
                 trading.                                                         bonds, cash, and tangible assets such as real estate and
             alpha The risk-adjusted returns that a portfolio man-                precious metals and other commodities. Syn. asset
                 ager generates in excess of the risk-adjusted returns            allocation.
                 expected by the capital asset pricing model (CAPM).          auction market A market in which buyers enter
                 Suppose an index return is 10%; the risk-free rate is            competitive bids and sellers enter competitive offers
                 3%, the portfolio beta is 1.5, and the actual return is          simultaneously. The NYSE is an auction market.
                 25%. According to the CAPM, the portfolio should                 Syn. double auction market.
                 be expected to return 1.5 times the index after netting      audited financial statement A financial statement of
                 out the risk-free rate. This is because the portfolio is         a program, a corporation, or an issuer (including the
                 1.5 times riskier than the market. If we take the index          profit and loss statement, cash flow and source and
                 return after subtracting the 3% risk-free rate, we get           application of revenues statement, and balance sheet)
                 7%. Multiply that times 1.5 and the measured portfo-             that has been examined and verified by an indepen-
                 lio should have returned 10.5% for taking extra risk.            dent certified public accountant.
                 It actually returned 22% over the risk-free rate giving      average basis An accounting method used when an
                 us an alpha of 10.5.                                             investor has made multiple purchases at different
             alternative minimum tax (AMT) An alternative tax                     prices of the same security; the method averages the
                 computation that adds certain tax preference items               purchase prices to calculate an investor’s cost basis in
                 back into adjusted gross income. If the AMT is higher            shares being liquidated. The difference between the
                 than the regular tax liability for the year, the regular         average cost basis and the selling price determines the
                 tax and the amount by which the AMT exceeds the                  investor’s tax liability. See first in, first out; last in, first
                 regular tax are paid. See tax preference item.                   out.
             American depositary receipt (ADR) A negotiable
                 certificate representing a given number of shares in a                                        B
                 foreign corporation. It is issued by a domestic bank.
                                                                              balanced fund A mutual fund whose stated invest-
                 ADRs are bought and sold in the American securities
                                                                                  ment policy is to have at all times some portion of its
                 markets, and are traded in English and U.S. dollars.
                                                                                  investment assets in bonds and preferred stock, as well
                 Syn. American depositary share (ADS).
                                                                                  as in common stock, in an attempt to provide both
             anti-dilutive covenant A protective clause found in
                                                                                  growth and income. See mutual fund.
                 most convertible issues (preferred stock or debentures)
                                                                              balanced investment strategy A method of portfolio
                 that adjusts the conversion rate for stock splits and/
                                                                                  allocation and management aimed at balancing risk
                 or stock dividends. This ensures that the holder of the
                                                                                  and return. A balanced portfolio may combine stocks,
                 convertible will not suffer a dilution in value.
                                                                                  bonds, packaged products such as investment compa-
             appreciation The increase in an asset’s value.
                                                                                  nies, DPPs, or REITs, and cash equivalents.
             arbitrage A legal strategy that generates a guaranteed
                                                                              balance sheet A report of a corporation’s financial
                 profit from a transaction. A common form of arbitrage
                                                                                  condition at a specific time.
                 is the simultaneous purchase and sale of the same se-
                                                                              balance sheet equation A formula stating that a
                 curity in different markets at different prices to lock in
                                                                                  corporation’s assets equal the sum of its liabilities plus
                 a profit. This is not considered market manipulation.
                                                                                  shareholders’ equity.
             arithmetic mean The average of a set of numbers, such
                                                                              bank holding company A holding company whose
                 as annual returns on an investment.
                                                                                  primary asset is a commercial bank. See holding
             ask An indication by a trader or a dealer of a willingness
                                                                                  company.
                 to sell a security or a commodity; the price at which
                                                                              basis Another term for yield to maturity (e.g., this bond
                 an investor can buy from a broker-dealer. Syn. offer.
                                                                                  is selling at a 5.78 basis).
                 See bid; public offering price; quotation.
                                                                              basis point A measure of a bond’s yield, equal to 1/100
             assessable stock A stock that is issued below its par
                                                                                  of 1% of yield. A bond whose yield increases from
                 or stated value. The issuer and/or creditors have the
                                                                                  5.00% to 5.50% is said to increase by 50 basis points.
                                                                                  See point.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 662                                                                                                                            7/15/2016 2:03:38 PM
                                                                                                                                       Glossary      663




                   bear An investor who acts on the belief that a security or       bond quote One of a number of quotations listed in the
                       the market is falling or will fall. See bull.                    financial press and most daily newspapers that provide
                   bear market A market in which prices of a certain                    representative bid prices from the previous day’s bond
                       group of securities are falling or are expected to fall.         market. Quotes for corporate and government bonds
                       See bull market.                                                 are percentages of the bonds’ face values (usually
                   benchmark portfolio A model portfolio of a large                     $1,000). Corporate bonds are quoted in increments
                       number of assets, such as the S&P 500, against which             of 1/8. Government bonds are quoted in increments of
                       the performance of a fund or portfolio is measured.              1/32. Municipal bonds may be quoted on a dollar basis
                   beta A means of measuring the co-movement of the                     or on a yield-to-maturity basis. See quotation; stock
                       return of a security or a portfolio of securities to the         quote.
                       return on the overall market. A beta of 1 indicates          bond rating An evaluation of the possibility of a bond
                       that the security’s returns will be expected to move             issuer’s default, based on an analysis of the issuer’s
                       in tandem with the market. A beta greater than 1                 financial condition and profit potential. Standard &
                       indi­cates that the security’s returns will be expected to       Poor’s, Moody’s Investors Service, and Fitch Investors
                       exceed those of the market. A beta less than 1 means             Service, among others, provide bond rating services.
                       returns will be expected to be lower than those of the       bond ratio One of several tools used by bond analysts
                       market. Syn. beta coefficient.                                   to assess the degree of safety offered by a corporation’s
                   bid An indication by an investor, a trader, or a dealer of           bonds. It measures the percentage of the corpora-
                       a willingness to buy a security; the price at which an           tion’s capitalization that is provided by long-term debt
                       investor can sell to a broker-dealer. See offer; public          financing, calculated by dividing the total face value
                       offering price; quotation.                                       of the outstanding bonds by the total capitalization.
                   Black-Scholes One of the most popular options pricing                Syn. debt ratio.
                       models. Appears frequently on the exam as an incor-          bond yield The annual rate of return on a bond invest-
                       rect choice.                                                     ment. Types of yield include nominal yield, cur-
                   block trade A large trading order, defined as an order               rent yield, yield to maturity, and yield to call. Their
                       that consists of 10,000 or more shares of a given                relationships vary according to whether the bond
                       stock or at a total market value of $200,000 or more.            in question is at a discount, at a premium, or at par.
                       Syn. block sale.                                                 See current yield; nominal yield.
                   blue-sky laws The nickname for state regulations gov-            book-entry security A security sold without delivery
                       erning the securities industry. The term was coined in           of a certificate. Evidence of ownership is maintained
                       1911 by a Kansas Supreme Court justice who wanted                on records kept by a central agency; for example,
                       regulation to protect against “speculative schemes               the Treasury keeps records of Treasury bill purchas-
                       that have no more basis than so many feet of blue                ers. Transfer of ownership is recorded by entering the
                       sky.”                                                            change on the books or electronic files. See coupon
                   board of directors Individuals elected by stockholders               bond.
                       to establish corporate management policies. A board          book value per share A measure of the net worth of
                       of directors decides, among other issues, if and when            each share of common stock is calculated by subtract-
                       dividends will be paid to stockholders.                          ing intangible assets and preferred stock from total
                   bona fide From the Latin “good faith,” something that is             net worth, then dividing the result by the number
                       bona fide is genuine, authentic, and real. An example            of shares of common outstanding. Syn. net tangible
                       would be a bona fide quote.                                      assets per share.
                   bond An issuing company’s or government’s legal obliga-          BRIC An acronym referring to investments in Brazil, Rus-
                       tion to repay the principal of a loan to bond investors          sia, India, and China
                       at a specified future date. Bonds are usually issued with    bridge loan A short-term loan made to bridge the gap
                       par or face values of $1,000, representing the amount            until permanent financing is arranged.
                       of money borrowed. The issuer promises to pay a per-         brochure A written disclosure statement that invest-
                       centage of the par value as interest on the borrowed             ment advisers must provide to most clients and
                       funds. The interest payment is stated on the face of             prospective clients. The Form ADV Part 2A may be
                       the bond at issue.                                               used for this purpose.
                   bond fund A mutual fund whose investment objective is            brochure supplement A written disclosure statement
                       to provide stable income with minimal capital risk. It           containing information about certain of an invest-
                       invests in income-producing instruments, which may               ment adviser’s supervised persons. This disclosure is
                       include corporate, government, or municipal bonds.               usually accomplished by the delivery of Form ADV
                       See mutual fund.                                                 Part 2B to most clients and prospective clients.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 663                                                                                                                    7/15/2016 2:03:39 PM
     664        Glossary




             broker (1) An individual or a firm that charges a fee or                 right to buy the underlying security at a specified
                 commission for executing buy and sell orders submit-                 price. See call writer; put.
                 ted by another individual or firm. (2) The role of              call date The date, specified in the prospectus of every
                 a firm when it acts as an agent for a customer and                   callable security, after which the security’s issuer has
                 charges the customer a commission for its services.                  the option to redeem the issue at par or at par plus a
                 See agent; broker-dealer; dealer.                                    premium.
             broker-dealer (BD) A person in the business of buying               call feature See call provision.
                 and selling securities. A firm may act as both broker           call protection A provision in a bond indenture stat-
                 (agency) and dealer (principal), but not in the same                 ing that the issue is noncallable for a certain period
                 transaction. Broker-dealers normally must register                   (e.g., 5 years or 10 years) after the original issue date.
                 with the SEC, the appropriate SROs, and any state                    See call provision.
                 in which they do business. See agent; broker; dealer;           call provision The written agreement between an issuer
                 principal.                                                           and its bondholders or preferred stockholders giving
             bull An investor who acts on the belief that a security or               the issuer the option to redeem its senior securities
                 the market is rising or will rise. See bear.                         at a specified price before maturity and under certain
             bulletin board See OTC Bulletin Board.                                   conditions. Syn. call feature.
             bull market A market in which prices of a certain group             call risk The potential for a bond to be called before
                 of securities are rising or will rise. See bear market.              maturity, leaving the investor without the bond’s
             business cycle A predictable long-term pattern of                        current income. Because this is more likely to occur
                 alternating periods of economic growth and decline.                  during times of falling interest rates, the investor may
                 The cycle passes through four stages: expansion, peak,               not be able to reinvest his principal at a comparable
                 contraction, and trough.                                             rate of return.
             business risk The risk inherent in equity securities                call writer An investor who receives a premium and
                 that poor management decisions will have a negative                  takes on, for a specified time, the obligation to sell
                 impact on the stock’s performance. Can be reduced                    the underlying security at a specified price at the call
                 through diversification. Syn. unsystematic risk.                     buyer’s discretion. See call buyer; put.
             buy stop order An order to buy a security that is                   capital appreciation An increase in an asset’s market
                 entered at a price above the current offering price and              price.
                 that is triggered when the market price touches or              capital asset All tangible property, including securities,
                 goes through the buy stop price.                                     real estate, and other property, held for the long term.
             bypass trust A trust that is funded with property in an             capital asset pricing model (CAPM) A securities
                 amount equal to the exemption equivalent of the                      market investment theory that attempts to derive the
                 transfer tax credit amount applicable to the decedent                expected return on an asset on the basis of the asset’s
                 ($5.45 million in 2016); thus, the property is not sub-              systematic risk.
                 ject to federal estate tax. See generation skipping trust.
                                                                                 capital gain The profit realized when a capital asset
                                            C                                        is sold for a higher price than the purchase price.
             calendar year For accounting purposes, a year that ends
                                                                                     See capital loss; long-term gain.
                                                                                 capitalization The sum of a corporation’s long-term
                  on December 31. When an accounting year ends any
                  other time, it is called a fiscal year. See fiscal year.           debt, stock, and surpluses. Syn. invested capital.
             call (1) An option contract giving the owner the right to
                                                                                     See capital structure.
                                                                                 capitalization ratio A measure of an issuer’s financial
                  buy a specified amount of an underlying security at a
                  specified price within a specified time. (2) The act of            status that calculates the value of its bonds, preferred
                  exercising a call option. See put.                                 stock, or common stock as a percentage of its total
             callable bond A type of bond issued with a provision al-
                                                                                     capitalization.
                                                                                 capital loss The loss incurred when a capital asset is sold
                  lowing the issuer to redeem the bond before maturity
                  at a predetermined price.                                          for a price lower than the purchase price. See capital
             callable preferred stock A type of preferred stock
                                                                                     gain; long-term loss.
                                                                                 capital market The segment of the securities market
                  issued with a provision allowing the corporation to
                  call in the stock at a certain price and retire it. See call       that deals in instruments with more than one year to
                  price; preferred stock.                                            maturity—that is, long-term debt and equity securi-
             call buyer An investor who pays a premium for an op-
                                                                                     ties. In contrast, the money market is the raising of
                  tion contract and receives, for a specified time, the              short-term capital such as Treasury bills and commer-
                                                                                     cial paper.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 664                                                                                                                         7/15/2016 2:03:39 PM
                                                                                                                                        Glossary      665




                   capital stock All of a corporation’s outstanding pre-            churning Excessive trading in a customer’s account by an
                       ferred stock and common stock, listed at par value.              agent who ignores the customer’s interests and seeks
                   capital structure The composition of long-term funds                 only to increase commissions; violates NASAA’s poli-
                       (equity and debt) a corporation has as a source for              cies on unethical business practices. Syn. overtrading.
                       financing. See capitalization.                               CHX See Chicago Stock Exchange.
                   capital surplus The money a corporation receives in              closed-end investment company An investment
                       excess of the stated value of stock at the time of first         company that issues a fixed number of shares in an ac-
                       sale. Syn. paid-in capital; paid-in surplus. See par.            tively managed portfolio of securities. The shares may
                   capping An illegal form of market manipulation that                  be of several classes; they are traded in the secondary
                       attempts to keep the price of a subject security from            marketplace, either on a stock exchange or over the
                       rising. It is used by those with a short position.               counter. The market price of the shares is determined
                       See pegging.                                                     by supply and demand and not by net asset value.
                   cash account An account in which the customer is                     Syn. publicly traded fund; closed-end management
                       required by the SEC’s Regulation T to pay in full                company. See mutual fund.
                       for securities purchased not later than two days after       closing purchase An options transaction in which the
                       the standard payment period set by industry practice             seller buys back an option in the same series; the two
                       codes. Syn. special cash account.                                transactions effectively cancel each other out and the
                   cash dividend Money paid to a corporation’s stockhold-               position is liquidated. See opening purchase.
                       ers out of the corporation’s current earnings or ac-         CMO See collateralized mortgage obligation.
                       cumulated profits. The board of directors must declare       collateral Certain assets set aside and pledged to a lender
                       all dividends.                                                   for the duration of a loan. If the borrower fails to meet
                   cash equivalent A security that can be readily con-                  obligations to pay principal or interest, the lender has
                       verted into cash. Examples include Treasury bills,               claim to the assets.
                       certificates of deposit, and money market instruments        collateralized mortgage obligation (CMO) A
                       and funds.                                                       mortgage-backed corporate security. These issues
                   CBOE See Chicago Board Options Exchange.                             attempt to return interest and principal at a predeter-
                   CD See negotiable certificate of deposit.                            mined rate.
                   cease and desist order Used by the Administrator                 collateral trust bond A secured bond backed by stocks
                       when it appears that a registered person has or is               or bonds of another issuer. The collateral is held by a
                       about to commit a violation. May be issued with or               trustee for safekeeping. Syn. collateral trust certificate.
                       without a prior hearing.                                     collateral trust certificate See collateral trust bond.
                   certificate of deposit (CD) A traditional CD pays a              commercial paper An unsecured, short-term promisso-
                       fixed interest rate over a specific period of time. When         ry note issued by a corporation for financing accounts
                       that term ends, you can withdraw your money or roll              receivable and inventories. It is usually issued at a
                       it into another CD. These are insured up to $250,000             discount reflecting prevailing market interest rates.
                       by the FDIC and are considered the best method of                Maturities range up to nine months.
                       preservation of capital. See negotiable certificate of       commingling The combining by a brokerage firm of one
                       deposit.                                                         customer’s securities with another customer’s securi-
                   Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE) The                            ties and pledging them as joint collateral for a bank
                       self-regulatory organization with jurisdiction over              loan; unless authorized by the customers, this violates
                       all writing and trading of standardized options and              SEC Rule 15c2-1.
                       related contracts listed on that exchange. Also, the         commission A service charge an agent assesses in return
                       first national securities exchange for the trading of            for arranging a security’s purchase or sale. A commis-
                       listed options.                                                  sion must be fair and reasonable, considering all the
                   Chicago Stock Exchange Registered stock exchange                     relevant factors of the transaction. Syn. sales charge.
                       located in Chicago’s downtown “loop.” Referred to                See markup.
                       with the initials CHX.                                       common stock A security that represents ownership
                   Chinese Wall A descriptive name for the division within              in a corporation. Holders of common stock exercise
                       a brokerage firm that prevents insider information               control by electing a board of directors and voting on
                       from passing from corporate advisers to investment               corporate policy. See equity; preferred stock.
                       traders, who could make use of the information to            complex trust A trust that accumulates income over
                       reap illicit profits. The preferred term today is informa-       time and is not required to make scheduled distribu-
                       tion barriers. See Insider Trading and Securities Fraud          tions to its beneficiaries.
                       Enforcement Act of 1988.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 665                                                                                                                     7/15/2016 2:03:39 PM
     666        Glossary




             confirmation A printed document that states the trade              prices or rates. Dividends may be cumulative or non-
                date, settlement date, and money due from or owed to            cumulative. See cumulative preferred stock; noncumu-
                a customer. It is sent or given to the customer on or           lative preferred stock; preferred stock.
                before the settlement date.                                 convexity The most accurate way of indicating a debt
             constant dollar plan A formula method of investing                 security’s sensitivity to changes in interest rates.
                that attempts to maintain a fixed dollar, rather than       cooling-off period The period (a minimum of 20 days)
                ratio, amount in a specific asset class. Periodically,          between a registration statement’s filing date with the
                the account is reviewed and the specified asset class           SEC and the registration’s effective date. In practice,
                is either sold or purchased in order to get to the fixed        the period varies in length.
                dollar level.                                               corporate bond A debt security issued by a corporation.
             constant ratio plan A formula method of investing                  A corporate bond typically has a par value of $1,000,
                that contemplates maintaining a fixed ratio, rather             its interest is taxable, and it has a term maturity.
                than dollar amount, between specific asset classes in       corporation The most common form of business orga-
                the portfolio. Periodically, the account is reviewed            nization, in which the organization’s total worth is
                and the specified asset class is either sold or purchased       divided into shares of stock, each share representing a
                in order to get to the fixed ratio level.                       unit of ownership. A corporation is characterized by a
             Consumer Price Index (CPI) A measure of price                      continuous life span and its owners’ limited liability.
                changes in a “market basket” of consumer goods and          correlation The extent to which two or more securities
                services used to identify periods of inflation or defla-        or portfolios move together. The correlation coeffi-
                tion.                                                           cient is a number that ranges from –1 to +1. A perfect
             consumption A term used by economists to refer to the              correlation would have a coefficient of +1, whereas
                purchase by household units of newly produced goods             two securities that move in total opposite directions
                and services.                                                   would have a –1. A coefficient of 0 would reflect a
             contraction A period of general economic decline, one              totally random correlation between the two securities.
                of the business cycle’s four stages. See business cycle.    cost basis The price paid for an asset, including any
             contributory plan A retirement plan to which both the              commissions or fees, used to calculate capital gains or
                employee and the employer make contributions. See               losses when the asset is sold.
                noncontributory plan.                                       coupon yield See nominal yield.
             control person (1) A director or an officer of an issuer.      covered call writer An investor who sells a call option
                (2) A stockholder who owns more than 10% of any                 while owning the underlying security or some other
                class of a corporation’s outstanding securities. (3)            asset that guarantees the ability to deliver if the call is
                Spouse or other immediate family of any of the previ-           exercised.
                ous. Under the Investment Company Act of 1940,              covered security See federal covered security.
                a control person owns more than 25% of the voting           CPI See Consumer Price Index.
                securities and, under the Investment Advisers Act of        credit risk The degree of probability that the issuer of
                1940, it is 25% or more. See insider.                           a debt security will default in the payment of either
             control security Any security owned by a director                  principal or interest. Securities issued by the U.S.
                or an officer of the issuer or by a stockholder who             government are considered to have virtually no credit
                owns more than 10% of any class of a corporation’s              risk. Note: credit risk only refers to debt securi-
                outstanding securities. Who owns a security, not                ties—common stock has no credit risk because there
                the security itself, determines whether it is a control         is no debt obligation to the owner. Syn. default risk;
                security.                                                       financial risk.
             conversion privilege A feature the issuer adds to a            credit spread A position established when the premium
                security that allows the holder to change the security          received for the option sold exceeds the premium paid
                into shares of common stock. This makes the security            for the option bought. See debit spread.
                attractive to investors and, therefore, more market-        current assets Cash and other assets that are ex-
                able. See convertible bond; convertible preferred               pected to be converted into cash within the next 12
                stock.                                                          months. Examples include such liquid items as cash
             convertible bond A debt security, usually in the form of           and equivalents, accounts receivable, inventory, and
                a debenture, that can be exchanged for equity securi-           prepaid expenses.
                ties of the issuing corporation at specified prices or      current liabilities A corporation’s debt obligations due
                rates. See debenture.                                           for payment within the next 12 months. Examples
             convertible preferred stock An equity security that                include accounts payable, accrued wages payable, and
                can be exchanged for common stock at specified                  current long-term debt.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 666                                                                                                                    7/15/2016 2:03:39 PM
                                                                                                                                       Glossary      667




                   current market value (CMV) The worth of the securi-               debenture A debt obligation backed by the issuing cor-
                       ties in an account. The market value of listed securi-            poration’s general credit. Syn. unsecured bond.
                       ties is based on the closing prices on the previous busi-     debit spread A position established when the premium
                       ness day. Syn. long market value. See market value.               paid for the option bought exceeds the premium
                   current ratio A measure of a corporation’s liquidity;                 received for the option sold. See credit spread.
                       that is, its ability to transfer assets into cash to meet     debt security A security representing an investor’s loan
                       current short-term obligations. It is calculated by               to an issuer, such as a corporation, a municipality, the
                       dividing total current assets by total current liabilities.       federal government, or a federal agency. In return for
                       Syn. working capital ratio.                                       the loan, the issuer promises to repay the debt on a
                   current yield The annual rate of return on a security,                specified date and to pay interest. See equity security.
                       calculated by dividing the interest or dividends paid         debt-to-equity ratio The ratio of total long-term debt
                       by the security’s current market price. See bond yield.           to total stockholders’ equity; it is used to measure
                   custodial account An account in which a custodian                     leverage.
                       enters trades on behalf of the beneficial owner, often a      decumulation Disposal of something accumulated.
                       minor. See custodian.                                             Investors spend much of their working years accumu-
                   custodian An institution or a person responsible for                  lating for retirement; taking the funds out is decumu-
                       making all investment, management, and distribution               lation.
                       decisions in an account maintained in the best inter-         default The failure to pay interest or principal promptly
                       ests of another. Mutual funds have custodian banks                when due.
                       responsible for safeguarding certificates and perform-        default risk See credit risk.
                       ing clerical duties.                                          defensive industry A fundamental analysis term for an
                   customer Any person who opens a trading account with                  industry that is relatively unaffected by the business
                       a broker-dealer. A customer may be classified in terms            cycle. Most defensive industries produce nondurable
                       of account ownership, trading authorization, payment              goods for which demand remains steady throughout
                       method, or types of securities traded.                            the business cycle; examples include the food industry
                   customer statement A document showing a cus-                          and utilities.
                       tomer’s trading activity, positions, and account bal-         defensive investment strategy A method of portfolio
                       ance. The SEC requires that customer statements be                allocation and management aimed at minimizing the
                       sent quarterly, but customers generally receive them              risk of losing principal. Defensive investors place a
                       monthly.                                                          high percentage of their investable assets in bonds,
                   cyclical industry A fundamental analysis term for an in-              cash equivalents, and stocks that are less volatile than
                       dustry that is sensitive to the business cycle and price          average.
                       changes. Most cyclical industries produce durable             deferred annuity An annuity contract that delays pay-
                       goods, raw materials, and heavy equipment.                        ment of income, installments, or a lump sum until the
                                                                                         investor elects to receive it.
                                                 D                                   deferred compensation plan A nonqualified retire-
                                                                                         ment plan whereby the employee defers receiving
                   dark pool This term refers to an alternative trading
                                                                                         current compensation in favor of a larger payout at
                      system (ATS) where a supply of shares exists that is
                                                                                         retirement (or in the case of disability or death).
                      not displayed for all to see. Dark pools are akin to
                                                                                     deficiency letter The SEC’s notification of additions or
                      members-only trading platforms for those desiring
                                                                                         corrections that a prospective issuer must make to a
                      to execute larger trades without their interest being
                                                                                         registration statement before the SEC will clear the
                      made known through an open book. A dark pool
                                                                                         offering for distribution.
                      provides anonymity to investors and sensitivity of
                                                                                     defined benefit plan A qualified retirement plan that
                      share prices to movement when any sizeable demand
                                                                                         specifies the total amount of money that the employee
                      appears.
                                                                                         will receive at retirement.
                   day order An order that is valid only until the close of
                                                                                     defined contribution plan A qualified retirement plan
                      trading on the day it is entered; if it is not executed by
                                                                                         that specifies the amount of money that the employer
                      the close of trading, it is canceled.
                                                                                         will contribute annually to the plan.
                   dealer (1) An individual or a firm engaged in the
                                                                                     deflation A persistent and measurable fall in the general
                      business of buying and selling securities for its own
                                                                                         level of prices. See inflation.
                      account, either directly or through a broker. (2) The
                                                                                     delta One of the 4 Greeks used by options analysts. An
                      role of a firm when it acts as a principal and charges
                                                                                         option’s delta is the rate of change of the price of the
                      the customer a markup or markdown. Syn. principal.
                                                                                         option with respect to its underlying security’s price.
                      See broker; broker-dealer.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 667                                                                                                                    7/15/2016 2:03:39 PM
     668        Glossary




                 The delta of an option ranges in value from 0 to 1           discretion The authority given to someone other than
                 for calls (0 to -1 for puts) and reflects the increase or        an account’s beneficial owner to make investment
                 decrease in the price of the option in response to a 1           decisions for the account concerning the security, the
                 point movement of the underlying asset price.                    number of shares or units, and whether to buy or sell.
             demand A consumer’s desire and willingness to pay for a              The authority to decide only timing or price does not
                 good or service. See supply.                                     constitute discretion. See limited power of attorney.
             demand deposit Demand deposit (DDA) refers to a                  discretionary account An account in which the cus-
                 type of account held at banks and financial institu-             tomer has given the agent authority to enter transac-
                 tions that may be withdrawn at any time by the cus-              tions at the representative’s discretion.
                 tomer. The majority of such demand deposit accounts          disgorge(ment) In legal usage, the forced giving up of
                 are checking accounts, although many now include                 profits made through illegal activity, most commonly
                 savings accounts in the definition as well.                      insider trading.
             demutualization Demutualization is the process                   disposable income (DI) The sum that people divide
                 through which a member-owned company becomes                     between spending and personal savings. See personal
                 shareholder-owned. Historically, this has usually                income.
                 been done by mutual life insurance companies (think          distributable net income (DNI) Taxable income from
                 MetLife and Prudential), but, in recent years has been           a trust that determines the amount of income that
                 done by other member-owned entities such as the                  may be taxable to beneficiaries.
                 New York Stock Exchange.                                     diversification A risk management technique that
             depreciation (1) A tax deduction that compensates a                  mixes a wide variety of investments within a portfolio,
                 business for the cost of certain tangible assets. (2) A          thus minimizing the impact of any one security on
                 decrease in the value of a particular currency relative          overall portfolio performance.
                 to other currencies.                                         diversified common stock fund A mutual fund that
             depreciation expense A bookkeeping entry of a non-                   invests its assets in a wide range of common stocks.
                 cash expense charged against earnings to recover the             The fund’s objectives may be growth, income, or a
                 cost of an asset over its useful life.                           combination of both. See growth fund; mutual fund.
             depression A prolonged period of general economic                dividend A distribution of a corporation’s earnings. Divi-
                 decline.                                                         dends may be in the form of cash, stock, or property.
             derivative An investment vehicle, the value of which is              The board of directors must declare all dividends.
                 based on another security’s value. Futures contracts,            Syn. stock dividend. See cash dividend; dividend yield;
                 forward contracts, and options are among the most                property dividend.
                 common types of derivatives. Institutional investors         dividend discount model The simplest model for
                 generally use derivatives to increase overall portfolio          valuing equity is the dividend discount model—the
                 return or to hedge portfolio risk.                               value of a stock is the present value of expected divi-
             designated market maker (DMM) See specialist.                        dends on it. Syn, DDM.
             dilution A reduction in earnings per share of common             dividend exclusion rule An IRS provision that permits
                 stock. Dilution occurs through the issuance of addi-             a corporation to exclude from its taxable income 70%
                 tional shares of common stock and the conversion of              of dividends received from domestic preferred and
                 convertible securities. See anti-dilutive covenant.              common stocks. The Tax Reform Act of 1986 re-
             directed brokerage The ability of an investment                      pealed the dividend exclusion for individual investors.
                 adviser or a client to determine broker-dealers to be        dividend growth model A valuation method which
                 used in the execution of transactions in their advisory          takes into consideration dividend per share and its
                 accounts. See soft-dollar compensation.                          expected growth. This model assumes that dividends
             direct participation program (DPP) A business                        grow at the same rate forever. Therefore, it is most
                 organized so as to pass all income, gains, losses, and           commonly used to value companies belonging to for
                 tax benefits to its owners, the investors; the business is       mature and stable industries, having steady dividend
                 usually structured as a limited partnership. Examples            growth. It will show a higher valuation than the
                 include oil and gas programs, real estate programs,              DDM. Syn. DGM.
                 agricultural programs, cattle programs, condominium          dividends per share The dollar amount of cash divi-
                 securities, and S corporation offerings.                         dends paid on each common share during one year.
             discount The difference between the lower price paid for         dividend reinvestment plan Frequently referred to
                 a security and the security’s face amount at issue.              as a DRIP, the plan allows shareholders the option
             discount bond A bond that sells at a lower price than                of having cash dividends automatically reinvested in
                 its face value. See par.                                         shares of the issuer’s stock, frequently at a discounted




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 668                                                                                                                   7/15/2016 2:03:39 PM
                                                                                                                                     Glossary      669




                       price and/or without commissions. In most plans, ad-       duration Duration is an approximate measure of a bond’s
                       ditional investments are permitted.                            price sensitivity to changes in interest rates. Duration
                   dividend yield The annual rate of return on a common               can be used to compare bonds with different issue and
                       or preferred stock investment. The yield is calculated         maturity dates, coupon rates, and yields to maturity.
                       by dividing the annual dividend by the stock’s pur-            The duration of a bond is expressed as a number of
                       chase price. See current yield; dividend.                      years from its purchase date.
                   DNI See distributable net income.
                   Dodd-Frank Bill The general term by which the Wall                                          E
                       Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of
                                                                                  earned income Income derived from active participa-
                       2010 is known. Considered to be the most significant
                                                                                       tion in a trade or business, including wages, salary,
                       legislation impacting the securities industry since the
                                                                                       tips, commissions, and bonuses. Also included is
                       1930s.
                                                                                       alimony received. One must have earned income in
                   dollar cost averaging A system of buying mutual
                                                                                       order to make contributions to an IRA. See portfolio
                       fund shares in fixed dollar amounts at regular fixed
                                                                                       income; unearned income.
                       intervals, regardless of the share’s price. The investor
                                                                                  earned surplus See retained earnings.
                       purchases more shares when prices are low and fewer
                                                                                  earnings momentum A term used to describe that
                       shares when prices are high, thus lowering the average
                                                                                       earnings are growing at an increasing rate. That is, if
                       cost per share over time.
                                                                                       they grew at a rate of 10% in the first quarter, 11%
                   donor A person who makes a gift of money or securities
                                                                                       in the second quarter and 14% in the most recent
                       to another. Once the gift is donated, the donor gives
                                                                                       quarter, this shows earnings increasing at an accelerat-
                       up all rights to it. Gifts of securities to minors under
                                                                                       ing rate. That is positive earnings momentum. Used
                       the Uniform Gift to Minors Act provide tax advan-
                                                                                       by those following a growth style of portfolio manage-
                       tages to the donor. See Uniform Gift to Minors Act.
                                                                                       ment.
                   Dow Jones averages The most widely quoted and
                                                                                  earnings multiplier Another term for the price-to-earn-
                       oldest measures of change in stock prices. Each of
                                                                                       ing (PE) ratio. The earnings multiplier is the price of
                       the four averages is based on the prices of a limited
                                                                                       the stock divided by its earnings per share.
                       number of stocks in a particular category. See average;
                                                                                  earnings per share (EPS) A corporation’s net income
                       Dow Jones Industrial Average.
                                                                                       available for common stock divided by its number of
                   Dow Jones Composite Average (DJCA) A market
                                                                                       shares of common stock outstanding.
                       indicator composed of the 65 stocks that make up the
                                                                                  effective date The date the registration of an issue of
                       Dow Jones Industrial, Transportation, and Utilities
                                                                                       securities becomes effective, allowing the underwrit-
                       Averages. See average; Dow Jones Industrial Average;
                                                                                       ers to sell the newly issued securities to the public and
                       Dow Jones Transportation Average; Dow Jones Utili-
                                                                                       confirm sales to investors who have given indications
                       ties Average.
                                                                                       of interest.
                   Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) The most
                                                                                  effective tax rate The overall rate paid on a taxpayer’s
                       widely used market indicator, composed of 30 large,
                                                                                       total taxable income. It will always be less than the
                       actively traded issues of industrial stocks.
                                                                                       marginal tax rate. See marginal tax rate.
                   Dow Jones Transportation Average (DJTA) A mar-
                                                                                  efficient market theory A theory based on the premise
                       ket indicator composed of 20 transportation stocks.
                                                                                       that the stock market processes information effi-
                       See average; Dow Jones Composite Average; Dow
                                                                                       ciently. The theory postulates that, as new informa-
                       Jones Industrial Average; Dow Jones Utilities Aver-
                                                                                       tion becomes known, it is reflected immediately in the
                       age.
                                                                                       price of a stock and therefore stock prices represent
                   Dow Jones Utilities Average (DJUA) A market
                                                                                       fair prices. There are three forms of this theory: weak,
                       indicator composed of 15 utilities stocks. See average;
                                                                                       semi-strong, and strong, depending upon the amount
                       Dow Jones Composite Average; Dow Jones Industrial
                                                                                       of information available. Syn. Efficient market hy-
                       Average; Dow Jones Transportation Average.
                                                                                       pothesis.
                   DRIP See dividend reinvestment plan.
                                                                                  enjoined This term includes being subject to a manda-
                   durable power of attorney A document giving either
                                                                                       tory injunction, prohibitory injunction, preliminary
                       full or limited authority to a third party that survives
                                                                                       injunction, or a temporary restraining order issued by
                       the mental or physical incompetence (but not death)
                                                                                       a court of competent jurisdiction.
                       of the grantor. See full power of attorney; limited
                                                                                  equity Common and preferred stockholders’ owner-
                       power of attorney.
                                                                                       ship interests in a corporation. See common stock;
                                                                                       preferred stock.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 669                                                                                                                  7/15/2016 2:03:39 PM
     670        Glossary




             equity financing Raising money for working capital or                     No transaction is exempt from the Uniform
                for capital expenditures by selling common or pre-               Securities Act’s antifraud provisions.
                ferred stock to individual or institutional investors. In    exercise price The cost per share at which an option
                return for the money paid, the investors receive own-            or a warrant holder may buy or sell the underlying
                ership interests in the corporation. See debt financing.         security. Syn. strike price.
             equity security A security representing ownership in a          expansion A period of increased business activity
                corporation or another enterprise. Examples of equity            throughout an economy; one of the four stages of the
                securities include:                                              business cycle. Syn. recovery. See business cycle.
                ■■ common and preferred stock;                               expense ratio A ratio for comparing a mutual fund’s
                   ■■ interests in a limited partnership or joint ven-           efficiency by dividing the fund’s expenses by its net
                      ture;                                                      assets.
                   ■■ securities that carry the right to be traded for eq-
                      uity securities, such as convertible bonds, rights,                                 F
                      and warrants; and                                      face value See par.
                   ■■ put and call options on equity securities.             Fannie Mae See Federal National Mortgage Association.
                                                                             federal covered adviser As defined by the NSMIA
             exchange-listed security A security that has met                   of 1996, either an investment adviser registered with
                certain requirements and has been admitted to full              the SEC or excluded from the definition of invest-
                trading privileges on a stock exchange. The NYSE                ment adviser by the Investment Advisers Act of 1940.
                and regional exchanges set listing requirements for             Under Dodd-Frank, these advisers registering with the
                volume of shares outstanding, corporate earnings, and           SEC must generally meet a threshold of $100 million
                other characteristics.                                          or more in assets under management.
             exchange traded fund An investment company origi-               Federal covered security Under the NSMIA of
                nally designed to track a specific index that is traded         1996, a new definition was created: covered security,
                on a stock exchange. Rather than basing the price on            generally referred to as federal covered security on the
                NAV, the ETF’s market price is constantly changing as           exam. State securities registration requirements were
                does the price of any other listed stock. ETFs may be           preempted with respect to covered securities, other
                purchased on margin and sold short. Although most               than the ability to require notice filing, particularly
                ETFs still track indexes, there are a number of ETFs            in the case of registered investment companies. The
                that are actively managed. Syn. ETF.                            most tested federal covered securities include those
             executor A person given fiduciary authorization to man-            listed on the major U.S. exchanges and Nasdaq as
                age the affairs of a decedent’s estate. An executor’s           well as investment companies registered with the SEC
                authority is established by the decedent’s last will.           and securities offered pursuant to the provisions of
             exempt reporting adviser ERAs are advisers that are                Rule 506 of Regulation D under the Securities Act of
                exempt from registration relying on either the venture          1933 (private placements).
                capital fund adviser or the private fund adviser ex-         Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) The
                emption. Although exempt from registration, an ERA              government agency that provides deposit insur-
                is subject to certain reporting, recordkeeping, and             ance for member banks and prevents bank and thrift
                other obligations.                                              failures.
             exempt security A security exempt from the registra-            Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA) A
                tion requirements (although not from the antifraud              publicly held corporation that purchases conventional
                requirements) of the Securities Act of 1933 or the              mortgages and mortgages from government agen-
                Uniform Securities Act. Examples include U.S. gov-              cies, including the Federal Housing Administration,
                ernment securities and municipal securities.                    Department of Veterans Affairs, and Farmers Home
             exempt transaction A transaction that does not trigger             Administration. Syn. Fannie Mae.
                a state’s registration and advertising requirements un-      Federal Reserve Board (FRB) A seven-member group
                der the Uniform Securities Act. Examples of exempt              that directs the operations of the Federal Reserve Sys-
                transactions include:                                           tem. The President appoints board members, subject
                ■■ nonissuer transactions in outstanding securities             to Congressional approval.
                     (normal market trading);                                Federal Reserve System The central bank system of
                   ■■ transactions with financial institutions;                 the United States. Its primary responsibility is to regu-
                   ■■ unsolicited transactions; and                             late the flow of money and credit. The system includes
                                                                                12 regional banks, 24 branch banks, and hundreds of
                   ■■ private placement transactions.
                                                                                national and state banks. Syn. Fed.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 670                                                                                                                  7/15/2016 2:03:40 PM
                                                                                                                                         Glossary      671




                   fiduciary A person legally appointed and authorized to                a business are applied to individual taxes and expenses
                        hold assets in trust for another person and manage               as though each incurred the income and deductions
                        those assets for that person’s benefit.                          directly. See limited partnership.
                   filing date The day on which an issuer submits to the             FNMA See Federal National Mortgage Association.
                        SEC the registration statement for a new securities          foreign currency Money issued by a country other than
                        issue.                                                           the one in which the investor resides. Options and
                   final prospectus The legal document that states a new                 futures contracts on numerous foreign currencies are
                        issue security’s price, delivery date, and underwriting          traded on U.S. exchanges.
                        spread, as well as other material information. It must       foreign exchange rate The price of one country’s
                        be given to every investor who purchases a new issue             currency in terms of another currency. Syn. exchange
                        of registered securities. Syn. prospectus.                       rate.
                   final order A term used in both state and federal law to          Form 706 The IRS form used for the computation of es-
                        refer to a decision rendered by a regulatory body. The           tate tax. It must be filed within nine months of death
                        final order may result in a suspension, revocation, or           unless an extension has been obtained.
                        denial of registration. It is analogous to the judge pass-   Form 709 The United States Gift (and Generation-
                        ing sentence in a trial.                                         Skipping Transfer) Tax Return is filed on Form 709.
                   Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA)                   Form 1040 The IRS form used to file individual income
                        Organized in July 2007 as a joint effort of NASD and             tax. Schedule C of the Form 1040 is used to report
                        the NYSE to harmonize regulation in the securities               business income for sole proprietorships.
                        industry.                                                    Form 1041 The IRS form used by estates and trusts to
                   financial risk See credit risk.                                       report their income for tax purposes.
                   FINRA The acronym for the Financial Industry Regula-              Form 1065 The information return filed by a partner-
                        tory Authority, the result of the cooperative effort of          ship or LLC. Because income and losses flow through
                        NASD and the NYSE to harmonize regulation in the                 to owners, the entity pays no tax.
                        securities industry.                                         Form 1120 and 1120S The tax returns filed by corpo-
                   firm quote The actual price at which a trading unit of                rations. The “S” is for an S corporation.
                        a security (such as 100 shares of stock or five bonds)       Form D The SEC form required to be filed when engag-
                        may be bought or sold. All quotes are firm quotes un-            ing in a Regulation D private placement.
                        less otherwise indicated.                                    forward contract A forward contract is a direct com-
                   first in, first out (FIFO) An accounting method used                  mitment between one buyer and one seller for a spe-
                        to assess a company’s inventory, in which it is assumed          cific commodity. Because forward contracts are direct
                        that the first goods acquired are the first to be sold.          obligations between a specific buyer and seller (unlike
                        The same method is used by the IRS to determine                  futures and options, they are not standardized), they
                        cost basis for tax purposes. See average basis; last in,         are not easily transferred and are considered illiquid.
                        first out.                                                   forward pricing The valuation process for mutual fund
                   fiscal year The term used to describe an accounting year              shares, whereby an order to purchase or redeem shares
                        that ends other than December 31st (calendar year                is executed at the price determined by the portfolio
                        accounting). See calendar year.                                  valuation calculated after the order is received. Port-
                   fixed annuity An insurance contract in which the insur-               folio valuations occur at least once per business day.
                        ance company makes fixed dollar payments to the an-          fraud The deliberate concealment, misrepresentation, or
                        nuitant for the term of the contract, usually until the          omission of material information or the truth, so as to
                        annuitant dies. The insurance company guarantees                 deceive or manipulate another party for unlawful or
                        both earnings and principal. Syn. fixed dollar annuity;          unfair gain.
                        guaranteed dollar annuity.                                   FRB See Federal Reserve Board.
                   fixed asset A tangible, physical property used in the             front-end load A mutual fund commission or sales
                        course of a corporation’s everyday operations, includ-           fee that is charged at the time shares are purchased.
                        ing buildings, equipment, and land.                              The load is added to the share’s net asset value when
                   flat yield curve A chart showing the yields of bonds                  calculating the public offering price.
                        with short maturities as equal to the yields of bonds        front running The prohibited practice of entering an or-
                        with long maturities. Syn. even yield curve. See in-             der for the benefit of a firm or a securities professional
                        verted yield curve; normal yield curve; yield curve.             before entering customer orders.
                   flow-through A term that describes the way income,                Full Disclosure Act See Securities Act of 1933.
                        deductions, and credits resulting from the activities of




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 671                                                                                                                      7/15/2016 2:03:40 PM
     672        Glossary




             full power of attorney A written authorization for                  finding the sum as with the arithmetic mean, takes
                  someone other than an account’s beneficial owner to            the product of the numbers and divides that by the
                  make deposits and withdrawals and to execute trades            nth root (where n is the count of numbers). It will
                  in the account. See limited power of attorney; durable         always be lower than the arithmetic mean [unless all
                  power of attorney.                                             of the numbers are the same (e.g., 6, 6, and 6)].
             full trading authorization An authorization, usually             good-til-canceled order (GTC) An order that is left
                  provided by a full power of attorney, for someone              on the specialist’s book until it is either executed or
                  other than the customer to have full trading privileges        canceled. Syn. open order.
                  in an account. See limited trading authorization.           goodwill An intangible asset that represents the value
             fundamental analysis A method of evaluating securi-                 that a firm’s business reputation adds to its perceived
                  ties by attempting to measure the intrinsic value of a         value. It is not included in net worth for purposes of
                  particular stock. Fundamental analysts study the over-         computing book value per share.
                  all economy, industry conditions, and the financial         Government National Mortgage Association
                  condition and management of particular companies.              (GNMA) A wholly government-owned corporation
                  See technical analysis.                                         that issues pass-through mortgage debt certificates
             futures Futures contracts are exchange-traded obliga-                backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. govern-
                  tions for a specific commodity. A buyer goes long, or           ment. Syn. Ginnie Mae.
                  establishes a long position, and is obligated to take de-   grantor An individual or organization that gives assets
                  livery of the commodity on the future date specified.           to a beneficiary by transferring fiduciary duty to a
                  A seller goes short, or establishes a short position, and       third-party trustee that will maintain the assets for the
                  is obligated to deliver the commodity on the specified          benefit of the beneficiaries. Syn. settlor, trustor.
                  future date. If the seller does not own the commodity,      grantor trust A trust that requires that the grantor be
                  his potential loss is unlimited because he has promised         taxed on income produced by trust property if trust
                  delivery and must pay any price to acquire the com-             income is distributed to the grantor or to the grantor’s
                  modity to deliver. Futures may be highly leveraged.             spouse; trust income discharges a legal obligation of
                                                                                  the grantor or grantor’s family; and the grantor retains
                                          G                                       power to revoke or amend the trust.
                                                                              gross domestic product (GDP) The market value of
             GAAP The acronym for generally accepted accounting
                                                                                  all final goods and services produced within a coun-
                principles, the standard method used in the United
                                                                                  try in a given period of time. GDP = consumption
                States by professional accountants.
                                                                                  + investment + government spending + (exports –
             gamma One of the 4 Greeks used by options analysts.
                                                                                  imports) investment. To account for inflation, GDP
                An option’s gamma is a measure of the rate of change
                                                                                  is based on a constant dollar, currently the value in
                of its delta. The gamma of an option is expressed as
                                                                                  2005.
                a percentage and reflects the change in the delta in
                                                                              gross income All income of a taxpayer, from whatever
                response to a 1 point movement of the underlying
                                                                                  source derived.
                stock price.
                                                                              growth fund A diversified common stock fund that has
             GDP See gross domestic product.
                                                                                  capital appreciation as its primary goal. It invests in
             general obligation bond (GO) A municipal debt is-
                                                                                  companies that reinvest most of their earnings for
                sue backed by the full faith, credit, and taxing power
                                                                                  expansion, research, or development. See diversified
                of the issuer for payment of interest and principal.
                                                                                  common stock fund; mutual fund.
                Syn. full faith and credit bond. See revenue bond.
                                                                              growth industry An industry that is growing faster than
             general partnership (GP) An association of two or
                                                                                  the economy as a whole as a result of technological
                more entities formed to conduct a business jointly.
                                                                                  changes, new products, or changing consumer tastes.
                The partnership does not require documents for for-
                                                                              growth stock A common stock that is believed to offer
                mation, and the general partners are jointly and sever-
                                                                                  significant potential for capital gains. It often pays low
                ally liable for the partnership’s liabilities. See limited
                                                                                  dividends and sells at a high price-earnings ratio.
                partnership.
                                                                              growth style investing A management style that
             generation skipping trust A form of bypass trust that
                                                                                  attempts to find stocks with positive earnings momen-
                is designed to have assets pass to grandchildren (or
                                                                                  tum. These stocks typically sell at the upper end of
                great-grandchildren) in order to “skip” a generation of
                                                                                  their 52-week price range, have high P/E ratios and
                estate tax.
                                                                                  lower than average dividend payout ratios. See value
             geometric mean A type of average that indicates the
                                                                                  style investing.
                central tendency of a set of numbers that, instead of




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 672                                                                                                                     7/15/2016 2:03:40 PM
                                                                                                                                       Glossary      673




                   guaranteed security Under the Uniform Securities                                               I
                      Act, the term guaranteed means guaranteed by a third
                                                                                    immediate annuity An annuity contract that provides
                      party as to payment of principal, interest, or divi-
                                                                                         for monthly payments to begin immediately after
                      dends, but not capital gains.
                                                                                         deposit of the invested funds. Payments usually com-
                   guardian A court-appointed fiduciary who manages the
                                                                                         mence within 30 to 60 days. See deferred annuity.
                      assets of a minor or an incompetent for that person’s
                                                                                    immediate-or-cancel order (IRC) An order that
                      benefit. See fiduciary.
                                                                                         instructs the floor broker to execute it immediately, in
                                                                                         full or in part. Any portion of the order that remains
                                                H                                        unexecuted is canceled.
                   hedge An investment made to reduce the risk of adverse           impersonal investment advice Investment advisory
                       price movements in a security. Normally, a hedge                  services that do not purport to meet the objectives or
                       consists of a protecting position in a related security.          needs of specific individuals or accounts.
                       See long hedge; selling a hedge; short hedge.                income fund A mutual fund that seeks to provide stable
                   hedge clause Any legend, clause, or other provision                   current income by investing in securities that pay
                       that is likely to lead an investor to believe that he has         interest or dividends. See mutual fund.
                       in any way waived any right of action he may have.           income statement The summary of a corporation’s
                   hedge fund A fund that can use one or more alterna-                   revenues and expenses for a specific fiscal period.
                       tive investment strategies, including hedging against        indenture The agreement between a lender and a bor-
                       market downturns, investing in asset classes such as              rower that details specific terms of the bond issuance.
                       currencies or distressed securities, and utilizing return-        The indenture specifies the legal obligations of the
                       enhancing tools such as leverage, derivatives, and ar-            bond issuer and rights of the bondholders. It is some-
                       bitrage. These funds tend to have very high minimum               times called the deed of trust.
                       investment requirements.                                     index See security market index.
                   high net worth individual An individual with at least            index fund Investors who wish to invest passively can
                       $1 million managed by the IA or whose net worth the               invest in an index fund, which seeks to replicate the
                       firm reasonably believes exceeds $2 million. The net              performance of a security market index. There are
                       worth of an individual may include assets held jointly            index mutual funds and index exchange-traded funds.
                       with that individual’s spouse. Performance-based fees             See security market index.
                       may be charged to these clients.                             indication of interest An investor’s expression of
                   high yield bond A bond with a less than investment                    conditional interest in buying an upcoming securities
                       grade rating, characterized by a return commensurate              issue after the investor has reviewed a preliminary
                       with the higher risk. Syn. junk bond                              prospectus. An indication of interest is not a commit-
                   holder The owner of a security. See long.                             ment to buy.
                   holding company A company organized to invest in                 individual retirement account (IRA) A retirement
                       and manage other corporations. Control can occur                  investing tool for employed individuals that allows an
                       through the ownership of 50% or more of the voting                annual contribution of 100% of earned income up to
                       rights or through the exercise of a dominant influ-               a maximum of $5,500 ($6,500 for those 50 and older).
                       ence. It is sometimes referred to as the parent organi-      industrial development bond (IDB) A debt security
                       zation.                                                           issued by a municipal authority, which uses the pro-
                   holding period A time period signifying how long the                  ceeds to finance the construction or purchase of facili-
                       owner possesses a security. It starts the day after a             ties to be leased or purchased by a private company.
                       purchase and ends on the day of the sale.                         The bonds are backed by the credit of the private
                   home state If an investment adviser is registered with                company, which is ultimately responsible for principal
                       a state Administrator (state registered adviser), the             and interest payments. Syn. industrial revenue bond.
                       firm’s home state is the state where it maintains its        industrial revenue bond (IRB) See industrial develop-
                       principal office and place of business.                           ment bond.
                   HR-10 plan See Keogh plan.                                       industry fund See sector fund.
                   hypothecation Pledging to a broker-dealer securities             inelasticity A lack of responsiveness on the part of con-
                       bought on margin as collateral for the margin loan.               sumers and producers to a change in prices. See elas-
                       See rehypothecation.                                              ticity.
                                                                                    inflation A persistent and measurable increase in the
                                                                                         general level of prices. See deflation.
                                                                                    inflation risk See purchasing power risk.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 673                                                                                                                    7/15/2016 2:03:40 PM
     674        Glossary




             initial public offering (IPO) A corporation’s first sale          Internal Revenue Code (IRC) The legislation that de-
                 of common stock to the public. See new issue market;              fines tax liabilities and deductions for U.S. taxpayers.
                 public offering.                                              Internal Revenue Service (IRS) The U.S. government
             information barriers policies and procedures created                   agency responsible for collecting most federal taxes
                 to prevent misuse of material non-public information               and for administering tax rules and regulations.
                 (MNPI) are commonly referred to as information bar-           interstate offering An issue of securities registered with
                 riers. Formerly referred to as Chinese Walls.                      the SEC sold to residents of states other than the state
             inside information Material information that has not                   in which the issuer does business.
                 been disseminated to or is not readily available to the       intestate Dying without a legal will. Usually the probate
                 general public.                                                    court will appoint an administrator to handle the de-
             inside market When viewing the quotes of all of the                    ceased’s estate. For purposes of the Uniform Securities
                 market makers in a security, the inside market, or                 Act, transactions by this administrator (a fiduciary)
                 inside quote, is the best (highest) bid and the best               are considered exempt transactions.
                 (lowest) offer (or ask).                                      in-the-money The term used to describe an option that
             insider Any person who possesses or has access to mate-                has intrinsic value, such as a call option when the
                 rial nonpublic information about a corporation. Insid-             stock is selling above the exercise price or a put op-
                 ers include directors, officers, and stockholders who              tion when the stock is selling below the exercise price.
                 own more than 10% of any class of equity security of a             See at-the-money; intrinsic value; out-of-the-money.
                 corporation.                                                  intrastate offering An issue of securities exempt from
             Insider Trading Act See Insider Trading and Securities                 SEC registration, available to companies that do
                 Fraud Enforcement Act of 1988.                                     business in one state and sell their securities only to
             Insider Trading and Securities Fraud Enforce-                          residents of that same state. See Rule 147.
                 ment Act of 1988 Legislation that defines what                intrinsic value The potential profit to be made from
                 constitutes the illicit use of nonpublic information in            exercising an option. A call option is said to have
                 making securities trades and the liabilities and penal-            intrinsic value when the underlying stock is trading
                 ties that apply. Syn. Insider Trading Act. See Chinese             above the exercise price. See time value.
                 Wall; insider.                                                inverted yield curve A chart showing long-term debt
             institutional account An account held for the benefit                  instruments that have lower yields than short-term
                 of others. Examples of institutional accounts include              debt instruments. Syn. negative yield curve. See flat
                 banks, trusts, pension and profit-sharing plans, mutual            yield curve; normal yield curve.
                 funds, and insurance companies.                               investment adviser (1) Any person who makes invest-
             institutional investor A person or an organization that                ment recommendations in return for a flat fee or a
                 trades securities in large enough share quantities or              percentage of assets managed. (2) For an investment
                 dollar amounts that it qualifies for preferential treat-           company, the individual who bears the day-to-day
                 ment and lower commissions. An institutional order                 responsibility of investing the cash and securities held
                 can be of any size. Institutional investors are covered            in the fund’s portfolio in accordance with objectives
                 by fewer protective regulations because it is assumed              stated in the fund’s prospectus.
                 that they are more knowledgeable and better able to           investment adviser representative (IAR) Any
                 protect themselves.                                                partner, officer, director, or other individual employed
             intangible asset A property owned that is not physical,                by or associated with an investment adviser whose job
                 such as a formula, a copyright, or goodwill. See good-             function involves the rendering of advice, solicitation
                 will.                                                              for clients, or supervision of those who do.
             interest The charge for the privilege of borrowing                Investment Advisers Act of 1940 Legislation gov-
                 money, usually expressed as an annual percentage rate.             erning who must register with the SEC as an invest-
             interest rate risk The risk associated with investments                ment adviser. See investment adviser.
                 relating to the sensitivity of price or value to fluctua-     investment company A company engaged in the
                 tion in the current level of interest rates; also, the risk        business of pooling investors’ money and trading in
                 that involves the competitive cost of money. This                  securities for them. Examples include face-amount
                 term is generally associated with bond prices, but it              certificate companies, unit investment trusts, and
                 applies to all investments. In bonds, prices carry inter-          management companies.
                 est risk because if bond prices rise, outstanding bonds       Investment Company Act Amendments of 1970
                 will not remain competitive unless their yields and               Amendments to the Investment Company Act of
                 prices adjust to reflect the current market.                      1940 requiring, in particular, that sales charges relate




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 674                                                                                                                     7/15/2016 2:03:40 PM
                                                                                                                                      Glossary      675




                       to the services a fund provides its shareholders. See In-       See tenants in common; joint tenants with right of
                       vestment Company Act of 1940.                                   survivorship.
                   Investment Company Act of 1940 Congressional                    joint life with last survivor An annuity payout option
                       legislation regulating companies that invest and                that covers two or more people, with annuity pay-
                       reinvest in securities. The act requires an investment          ments continuing as long as one of the annuitants
                       company engaged in interstate commerce to register              remains alive.
                       with the SEC.                                               joint tenants with right of survivorship (JTWROS)
                   investment constraints Limitations or restrictions that             A form of joint ownership of an account whereby a
                       are specific to the adviser’s client. Investment con-           deceased tenant’s fractional interest in the account
                       straints include, among others, liquidity needs, time           passes to the surviving tenant(s). Used almost exclu-
                       horizon, and personal ethical choices (no tobacco or            sively by husbands and wives. See tenants in common.
                       alcohol stocks).                                            junk bond See high yield bond.
                   investment-grade security A security to which the
                       rating services (e.g., Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s)                                    K
                       have assigned a rating of BBB/Baa or above.
                                                                                   Keogh plan A qualified tax-deferred retirement plan for
                   investment objective Any goal a client hopes to
                                                                                       persons who are self-employed and unincorporated
                       achieve through investing. Examples include current
                                                                                       or who earn extra income through personal services
                       income, capital growth, and preservation of capital.
                                                                                       aside from their regular employment. Syn. HR-10
                   investment policy statement Used by those admin-
                                                                                       plan. See individual retirement account.
                       istering employee benefit plans to set out the objec-
                       tives, policies, investment selections, and monitoring
                       procedures for the plan. May also be used by invest-                                      L
                       ment advisers to determine policies to be followed          large-cap Stocks with a market capitalization of $10
                       with their clients.                                             billion or more.
                   investor The purchaser of an asset or security with the         last in, first out (LIFO) An accounting method used to
                       intent of profiting from the transaction.                       assess a corporation’s inventory in which it is assumed
                   IPO See initial public offering.                                    that the last goods acquired are the first to be sold.
                   IRA rollover The reinvestment of assets that an indi-               The method is used to determine cost basis for tax
                       vidual receives as a distribution from a qualified tax-         purposes; the IRS designates last in, first out as the or-
                       deferred retirement plan into an individual retirement          der in which sales or withdrawals from an investment
                       account within 60 days of receiving the distribution.           are made. It is the system used for random withdrawals
                       The individual may reinvest either the entire sum or a          from a non-qualified annuity where the earnings are
                       portion of the sum, although any portion not rein-              taxed first before receiving back a return of original
                       vested is taxed as ordinary income. See also individual         principal. See average basis; first in, first out.
                       retirement account; IRA transfer.                           LEAPS See Long-term Equity Anticipation Securities.
                   IRA transfer The direct reinvestment of retirement as-          legislative risk The potential for an investor to be ad-
                       sets from one qualified tax-deferred retirement plan to         versely affected by changes in investment or tax laws.
                       an individual retirement account. The account owner         leverage Using borrowed capital to increase investment
                       never takes possession of the assets but directs that           return. Syn. trading on the equity.
                       they be transferred directly from the existing plan cus-    liability A legal obligation to pay a debt owed. Current
                       todian to the new plan custodian. See also individual           liabilities are debts payable within 12 months. Long-
                       retirement account; IRA rollover.                               term liabilities are debts payable over a period of more
                   irrevocable trust A trust that cannot be altered or                 than 12 months.
                       canceled by the grantor at any time.                        LIBOR LIBOR is a benchmark interest rate based on the
                   issuer The entity, such as a corporation or municipality,           rates at which banks lend unsecured funds to each
                       that offers or proposes to offer its securities for sale.       other on the London interbank market. Published
                                                                                       daily, the rate was previously administered by the
                                                J                                      British Bankers’ Association (BBA). But in the after-
                                                                                       math of a scandal in 2012, Britain’s primary financial
                   joint account An account in which two or more
                                                                                       regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA),
                        individuals possess some form of control over the ac-
                                                                                       shifted supervision of LIBOR to a new entity, the ICE
                        count and may transact business in the account. The
                                                                                       Benchmark Administration, an independent subsid-
                        account must be designated as either joint tenants in
                                                                                       iary of the private exchange operator Intercontinental
                        common or joint tenants with right of survivorship.
                                                                                       Exchange, or ICE.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 675                                                                                                                   7/15/2016 2:03:40 PM
     676        Glossary




             limited liability An investor’s right to limit potential          living trust A trust created during the lifetime of the
                  losses to no more than the amount invested. Equity               grantor; also known as an inter vivos trust.
                  shareholders, such as corporate stockholders and             LLC See limited liability company.
                  limited partners, have limited liability.                    long The term used to describe the owning of a security,
             limited liability company (LLC) A hybrid between                      contract, or commodity. For example, a common
                  a partnership and a corporation in that it combines              stock owner is said to have a long position in the
                  the pass-through treatment of a partnership with the             stock. See short.
                  limited liability accorded to corporate shareholders.        longevity annuity A deferred income annuity that gen-
             limited partnership (LP) An association of two or                     erally does not begin payout until the age of 85. If a
                  more partners formed to conduct a business jointly               QLAC (qualified longevity annuity contract), exempt
                  and in which one or more of the partners is liable               from RMDs for up to 15 years in a qualified retirement
                  only to the extent of the amount of money they have              plans.
                  invested. Limited partners do not receive dividends          Long-term Equity Anticipation Securities LEAPS
                  but enjoy direct flow-through of income and expenses.            options have the same characteristics as standard
                  See flow-through; general partnership.                           options, but with expiration dates up to three years in
             limited power of attorney A written authorization for                 the future.
                  someone other than an account’s beneficial owner to          long-term gain The profit earned on the sale of a
                  make certain investment decisions regarding trans-               capital asset that has been owned for more than 12
                  actions in the account. See discretion; full power of            months. See capital gain; capital loss; long-term loss.
                  attorney; durable power of attorney.                         long-term loss The loss realized on the sale of a capital
             limited trading authorization An authorization,                       asset that has been owned for more than 12 months.
                  usually provided by a limited power of attorney, for             See capital gain; capital loss; long-term gain.
                  someone other than the customer to have trading              loss carryover A capital loss incurred in one tax year
                  privileges in an account. These privileges are limited           that is carried over to the next year or later years for
                  to purchases and sales; withdrawal of assets is not              use as a capital loss deduction. See capital loss.
                  authorized. See full trading authorization.
             limit order An order that instructs the broker-dealer to                                      M
                  buy a specified security below a certain price or to sell
                                                                               make a market To stand ready to buy or sell a particu-
                  a specified security above a certain price. These orders
                                                                                  lar security as a dealer for its own account. A market
                  are entered either for the day or good-til-canceled
                                                                                  maker accepts the risk of holding the position in the
                  (GTC). See stop limit order; stop order.
                                                                                  security. See market maker.
             liquidation priority In the case of a corporation’s liqui-
                                                                               Maloney Act An amendment enacted in 1938 to
                  dation, the order that is strictly followed for paying off
                                                                                  broaden Section 15 of the Securities Exchange Act of
                  creditors and stockholders: 1, unpaid wages; 2, taxes;
                                                                                  1934. Named for its sponsor, the late Sen. Francis Ma-
                  3, secured claims like mortgage bonds, equipment
                                                                                  loney of Connecticut, the amendment provided for
                  trust certificates, and collateral trust bonds; 4, unse-
                                                                                  the creation of a self-regulatory organization for the
                  cured liabilities (debentures) and general creditors; 5,
                                                                                  specific purpose of supervising the over-the-counter
                  subordinated debt; 6, preferred stockholders; and 7,
                                                                                  securities market. See National Association of Securi-
                  common stockholders.
                                                                                  ties Dealers, Inc.
             liquidity The ease with which an asset can be converted
                                                                               management company An investment company
                  to cash in the marketplace. A large number of buy-
                                                                                  that trades various types of securities in a portfolio
                  ers and sellers and a high volume of trading activity
                                                                                  in accordance with specific objectives stated in the
                  provide high liquidity.
                                                                                  prospectus. See closed-end management company;
             liquidity risk The potential that an investor might not
                                                                                  diversified management company; mutual fund; non-
                  be able to sell an investment when desired without
                                                                                  diversified management company.
                  adverse price disruption. Syn. marketability risk.
                                                                               margin The amount of equity contributed by a customer
             listed option An option contract that can be bought
                                                                                  as a percentage of the current market value of the
                  and sold on a national securities exchange in a
                                                                                  securities held in a margin account. See equity; initial
                  continuous secondary market. Listed options carry
                                                                                  margin requirement; Regulation T.
                  standardized strike prices and expiration dates.
                                                                               marginal tax rate The rate of taxation on any addition-
                  Syn. standardized option.
                                                                                  al taxable income received. It is sometimes referred to
             listed security A stock, a bond, or another security that
                                                                                  as the tax on the “next” dollar or the “last” dollar of
                  satisfies certain minimum requirements and is traded
                                                                                  income. See effective tax rate.
                  on a regional or national securities exchange such as
                  the New York Stock Exchange. See over the counter.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 676                                                                                                                    7/15/2016 2:03:40 PM
                                                                                                                                  Glossary      677




                   marital trust A trust that seeks to pass property to a           are very liquid forms of debt that mature in one year
                      survivor spouse while taking advantage of the marital         or less. Treasury bills, commercial paper, and jumbo
                      deduction; also known as an A trust.                          CDs are examples of money market instruments.
                   market capitalization The number of outstanding               money market fund A mutual fund that invests in
                      shares multiplied by the current market price. Classed        short-term debt instruments. The fund’s objective is
                      as large-cap, mid-cap, small-cap and micro-cap.               to earn interest while maintaining a stable net asset
                   market maker A dealer willing to accept the risk of              value of $1 per share. Always sold with no load, the
                      holding a particular security in its own account to           fund may also offer check-writing privileges and a low
                      facilitate trading in that security. See make a market.       initial minimum investment. See mutual fund.
                   market order An order to be executed immediately at           Monte Carlo simulation A statistical method to deter-
                      the best available price. A market order is the only or-      mine the return profile of a security or portfolio that
                      der that guarantees execution. Syn. unrestricted order.       recreates potential outcomes by generating random
                   market risk The potential for an investor to experience          values on the basis of the risk and return characteris-
                      losses owing to day-to-day fluctuations in the prices at      tics of the securities themselves.
                      which securities can be bought or sold. See systematic     Moody’s Investors Service One of the best known
                      risk.                                                         investment rating agencies in the United States. A
                   market value The price at which investors buy or sell            subsidiary of Dun & Bradstreet, Moody’s rates bonds,
                      a share of common stock or a bond at a given time.            commercial paper, preferred and common stocks, and
                      Market value is determined by buyers’ and sellers’            municipal short-term issues. See bond rating; Standard
                      interaction. See current market value.                        & Poor’s Corporation.
                   markup The difference between the lowest current offer-       mortgage bond A debt obligation secured by a property
                      ing price among dealers and the higher price a dealer         pledge. It represents a lien or mortgage against the
                      charges a customer.                                           issuing corporation’s properties and real estate assets.
                   matched orders Simultaneously entering identical              MRD Minimum required distribution. See required mini-
                      (or nearly identical) buy and sell orders for a security      mum distribution.
                      to create the appearance of active trading in that         municipal bond A debt security issued by a state, a
                      security. This violates the antifraud provisions of the       municipality, or another subdivision (such as a school,
                      Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the USA.                  a park, a sanitation, or another local taxing district)
                   material information Any fact that could affect an               to finance its capital expenditures. Such expenditures
                      investor’s decision to trade a security.                      might include the construction of highways, public
                   maturity date The date on which a bond’s principal is            works, or school buildings. Syn. municipal security.
                      repaid to the investor and interest payments cease.        municipal bond fund A mutual fund that invests
                      See par; principal.                                           in municipal bonds and operates either as a unit
                   mean When referring to a series of values, such as               investment trust or as an open-end fund. The fund’s
                      portfolio returns, the average. A measure of central          objective is to maximize federally tax-exempt income.
                      tendency known as the arithmetic mean. Could also             See mutual fund; unit investment trust.
                      refer to the geometric mean.                               municipal note A short-term municipal security issued
                   median When viewing a series of values, such as portfo-          in anticipation of funds from another source.
                      lio returns, the number that has as many occurrences       Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (MSRB) A
                      above as below. A measure of central tendency.                self-regulatory organization that regulates the issu-
                   mid-cap Stocks with a market capitalization of $2 billion        ance and trading of municipal securities. The Board
                      to $10 billion.                                               functions under the Securities and Exchange Com-
                   mode When viewing a series of values, the one that               mission’s supervision; it has no enforcement powers.
                      occurs the most frequently. A measure of central              See Securities Amendments Act of 1975.
                      tendency.                                                  mutual fund An investment company that continu-
                   modern portfolio theory (MPT) A method of choos-                 ously offers new equity shares in an actively managed
                      ing investments that focuses on the importance of             portfolio of securities. All shareholders participate in
                      the relationships among all of the investments in a           the fund’s gains or losses. The shares are redeemable
                      portfolio rather than the individual merits of each           on any business day at the net asset value. Each mu-
                      investment. The method allows investors to quantify           tual fund’s portfolio is invested to match the objective
                      and control the amount of risk they accept and return         stated in the prospectus. Syn. open-end investment
                      they achieve.                                                 company; open-end management company. See bal-
                   money market The securities market that deals in high            anced fund; contractual plan; net asset value.
                      quality, short-term debt. Money market instruments




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 677                                                                                                               7/15/2016 2:03:41 PM
     678        Glossary




                                          N                                   new issue market The securities market for shares in
                                                                                  privately owned businesses that are raising capital
             NASAA See North American Securities Administrators
                                                                                  by selling common stock to the public for the first
                   Association.
                                                                                  time. Syn. primary market. See initial public offering;
             NASD See National Association of Securities Dealers,
                                                                                  secondary market.
                   Inc.
                                                                              no-load fund A mutual fund whose shares are sold
             Nasdaq See National Association of Securities Dealers
                                                                                  without a commission or sales charge. The investment
                   Automated Quotation System.
                                                                                  company distributes the shares directly. See mutual
             NASD 5% markup policy A guideline for reasonable
                                                                                  fund; net asset value; sales load.
                   markups, markdowns, and commissions for second-
                                                                              nominal yield The interest rate stated on the face of a
                   ary over-the-counter transactions. According to the
                                                                                  bond that represents the percentage of interest the
                   policy, all commissions on broker transactions and
                                                                                  issuer pays on the bond’s face value. Syn. coupon rate;
                   all markups or markdowns on principal transactions
                                                                                  stated yield. See bond yield.
                   should equal 5% or should be fair and reasonable for a
                                                                              nominee A person or company whose name is given as
                   particular transaction. Syn. markup policy.
                                                                                  having title to a stock, real estate, and so forth, but
             National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.
                                                                                  who is not the actual owner. See street name.
                 (NASD) The self-regulatory organization for the
                                                                              nonaccredited investor An investor not meeting the
                   over-the-counter market. NASD was organized under
                                                                                  net worth requirements of Regulation D. Nonac-
                   the provisions of the 1938 Maloney Act. See Maloney
                                                                                  credited investors are counted for purposes of the
                   Act, FINRA.
                                                                                  35-investor limitation for Rule 506(b) Regulation D
             National Association of Securities Dealers Auto-
                                                                                  private placements. See accredited investor; private
                 mated Quotation System (Nasdaq) The nation-
                                                                                  placement; Regulation D.
                 wide electronic quotation system for up-to-the-second
                                                                              noncontributory plan A retirement plan to which only
                 on approximately 3,100 over-the-counter stocks trade
                                                                                  the employer makes contributions. See contributory
                 information. Sometimes referred to as the Nasdaq
                                                                                  plan.
                 Stock Market. All securities traded here are federal
                                                                              nondiversification A portfolio management strategy
                 covered as defined in the NSMIA of 1996.
                                                                                  that seeks to concentrate investments in a particular
             NAV per share The value of a mutual fund share, calcu-
                                                                                  industry or geographic area in hopes of achieving
                 lated by dividing the fund’s total net asset value by the
                                                                                  higher returns. See diversification.
                 number of shares outstanding.
                                                                              nonqualified retirement plan A corporate retire-
             negotiability A characteristic of a security that permits
                                                                                  ment plan that does not meet the standards set by
                 the owner to assign, give, transfer, or sell it to another
                                                                                  the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of
                 person without a third party’s permission.
                                                                                  1974. Contributions to a nonqualified plan are not tax
             negotiable certificate of deposit (CD) An unsecured
                                                                                  deductible. See also qualified retirement plan.
                 promissory note issued with a minimum face value of
                                                                              nonrecourse financing Debt incurred for the purchase
                 $100,000. It evidences a time deposit of funds with
                                                                                  of an asset that pledges the asset as security for the
                 the issuing bank and is guaranteed by the bank.
                                                                                  debt but that does not hold the borrower personally
             net asset value (NAV) A mutual fund share’s value,
                                                                                  liable.
                 as calculated once a day on the basis of the closing
                                                                              nonsystematic risk The potential for an unforeseen
                 market price for each security in the fund’s portfolio.
                                                                                  event to affect the value of a specific investment.
                 It is computed by deducting the fund’s liabilities from
                                                                                  Examples of such events include strikes, natural di-
                 the portfolio’s total assets and dividing this amount by
                                                                                  sasters, poor management decisions, introductions of
                 the number of shares outstanding. See mutual fund.
                                                                                  new product lines, and attempted takeovers. This risk
             net investment income The source of an investment
                                                                                  is diversifiable. Syn. unsystematic risk. See systematic
                 company’s dividend payments. It is calculated by
                                                                                  risk.
                 subtracting the company’s operating expenses from
                                                                              normal yield curve A chart showing long-term debt
                 the total dividends and interest the company receives
                                                                                  instruments having higher yields than short-term debt
                 from the securities in its portfolio.
                                                                                  instruments. Syn. positive yield curve. See flat yield
             net worth The amount by which assets exceed liabilities.
                                                                                  curve; inverted yield curve; yield curve.
             new account form The form that must be filled out
                                                                              North American Securities Administrators
                 for each new account opened with a brokerage firm.
                                                                                 Association Organized in 1919, the North
                 The form specifies, at a minimum, the account owner,
                                                                                  American Securities Administrators Association
                 trading authorization, payment method, and types of
                                                                                  (NASAA) is the oldest international organization
                 securities appropriate for the customer.
                                                                                  devoted to investor protection. NASAA is a




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 678                                                                                                                   7/15/2016 2:03:41 PM
                                                                                                                                        Glossary      679




                       voluntary association whose membership consists              over the counter (OTC) The term used to describe
                       of 67 state, provincial, and territorial securities             a security traded through the telephone-linked
                       administrators in the 50 states, the District of                and computer-connected OTC market rather than
                       Columbia, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands,                 through a stock exchange. See OTC market.
                       Canada, and Mexico.                                          oversubscribed The term used to describe a new
                   note A short-term debt security, usually maturing in five           security issue where the demand for the shares greatly
                       years or less. See Treasury note.                               exceeds the available supply. The issues usually ap-
                   notice filing (1) Method by which a registered invest-              preciate rapidly on the first day of trading and failure
                       ment company and certain other federal covered                  to properly allocate them is a prohibited practice.
                       securities file records with state securities Administra-
                       tors. (2) SEC-registered advisers (federal covered)                                        P
                       may have to provide state securities authorities (the        par The dollar amount the issuer assigns to a security. For
                       Administrator) with copies of documents that are                 an equity security, par is usually a small dollar amount
                       filed with the SEC and pay a filing fee.                         that bears no relationship to the security’s market
                                                                                        price. For a debt security, par is the amount repaid to
                                                O                                       the investor when the bond matures, usually $1,000.
                   offer (1) Under the Uniform Securities Act, any attempt              Syn. face value; principal; stated value. See capital
                       to solicit a purchase or sale in a security for value.           surplus; maturity date.
                       (2) An indication by an investor, a trader, or a dealer      participation The provision of the Employee Retire-
                       of a willingness to sell a security; the price at which an       ment Income Security Act of 1974 requiring that all
                       investor can buy from a broker-dealer. See bid.                  employees in a qualified retirement plan be covered
                   open-end investment company See mutual fund.                         within a reasonable time of their dates of hire.
                   opening purchase Entering the options market by buy-             partnership A form of business organization in which
                       ing calls or puts. See opening sale.                             two or more individuals manage the business and are
                   opening sale Entering the options market by selling                  equally and personally liable for its debts.
                       calls or puts. See closing purchase; opening purchase.       partnership account An account that empowers the
                   optimal portfolio The optimal portfolio under modern                 individual members of a partnership to act on the
                       portfolio theory assumes that investors seek a portfolio         behalf of the partnership as a whole.
                       of assets that minimizes risks while offering the high-      par value The dollar amount assigned to a security by
                       est possible return.                                             the issuer. For an equity security, par value is usually a
                   ordinary income Earnings other than capital gain.                    small dollar amount that bears no relationship to the
                   OTC Bulletin Board (OTCBB) An electronic quotation                   security’s market price. For a debt security, par value is
                       system for equity securities that are not listed on a            the amount repaid to the investor when the bond ma-
                       national exchange or included in the Nasdaq system.              tures, usually $1,000. Syn. face value; principal; stated
                       These are not federal covered securities and generally           value. See capital surplus; discount bond; premium
                       require registration with both the SEC and the states.           bond.
                   OTC Link An electronic inter-dealer quotation system             passive income Earnings derived from a rental property,
                       that displays quotes from broker-dealers for many                limited partnership, or other enterprise in which the
                       over-the-counter securities. Formerly known as the               individual is not actively involved. Passive income
                       Pink Sheets, OTC Link does not require companies                 therefore does not include earnings from wages or ac-
                       whose securities are quoted on its systems to meet any           tive business participation, nor does it include income
                       listing requirements.                                            from dividends, interest, and capital gains. See passive
                   OTC market The security trading system in which                      loss; unearned income.
                       broker-dealers negotiate directly with one another           passive loss A loss incurred through a rental property,
                       rather than through an auction on an exchange floor.             limited partnership, or other enterprise in which the
                       The trading takes place over computer and telephone              individual is not actively involved. Passive losses can
                       networks that link brokers and dealers around the                be used to offset passive income only, not wage or
                       world. Both listed and OTC securities, as well as                portfolio income. See passive income.
                       municipal and U.S. government securities, trade in           passive management style In a perfectly efficient
                       the OTC market.                                                  market, investors should use a passive investment
                   out-of-the-money The term used to describe an option                 strategy (i.e., buying a broad market index of stocks
                       that has no intrinsic value, such as a call option when          and holding it) because active investment strate-
                       the stock is selling below the exercise price or a put           gies will underperform due to transactions costs and
                       option when the stock is above the exercise price.               management fees. However, to the extent that market




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 679                                                                                                                     7/15/2016 2:03:41 PM
     680        Glossary




                 prices are inefficient, active investment strategies          portfolio manager The entity responsible for investing
                 can generate positive risk-adjusted returns. See active           a mutual fund’s assets, implementing its investment
                 management style.                                                 strategy, and managing day-to-day portfolio trading.
             pass-through certificate A security representing an                   Syn. fund manager.
                 interest in a pool of conventional, Veterans Admin-           position The amount of a security either owned (a long
                 istration, Farmers Home Administration, or other                  position) or owed (a short position) by an individual
                 agency mortgages. The pool receives the principal and             or a dealer. Dealers take long positions in specific se-
                 interest payments, which it passes through to each                curities to maintain inventories and thereby facilitate
                 certificate holder. Payments may or may not be guar-              trading.
                 anteed. See Federal National Mortgage Association;            preferred stock An equity security that represents
                 Government National Mortgage Association.                         ownership in a corporation. It is issued with a stated
             PE See price-earnings ratio.                                          dividend, which must be paid before dividends are
             peak The end of a period of increasing business activity              paid to common stockholders. It generally carries no
                 throughout the economy, one of the four stages of the             voting rights. See callable preferred stock; cumulative
                 business cycle. Syn. prosperity. See business cycle.              preferred stock.
             pecuniary Of or relating to money, such as operating for          preferred stock fund A mutual fund whose investment
                 pecuniary profit.                                                 objective is to provide stable income with minimal
             pegging An illegal form of market manipulation that                   capital risk. It invests in income-producing instru-
                 attempts to keep the price of a subject security from             ments such as preferred stock. See bond fund.
                 falling. It is used by those with a long position.            preliminary prospectus An abbreviated prospectus
                 See capping.                                                      that is distributed while the SEC is reviewing an
             pension plan A contract between an individual and                     issuer’s registration statement. It contains all of the es-
                 an employer, a labor union, a government entity, or               sential facts about the forthcoming offering except the
                 another institution that provides for the distribution            underwriting spread, final public offering price, and
                 of pension benefits at retirement.                                date on which the shares will be delivered. Syn. red
             Pension Reform Act See Employee Retirement Income                     herring.
                 Security Act of 1974.                                         premium (1) The amount of cash that an option buyer
             PE ratio See price-earnings ratio.                                    pays to an option seller. (2) The difference between
             performance-based fee An investment advisory fee                      the higher price paid for a security and the security’s
                 based on a share of capital gains on, or capital ap-              face amount at issue. See discount.
                 preciation of, client assets. A fee that is based upon        premium bond A bond that sells at a higher price than
                 a percentage of assets that the IA manages is not a               its face value. See discount bond; par value.
                 performance-based fee. This fee may only be charged           price-earnings ratio (PE) A tool for comparing the
                 to certain high net worth clients.                                prices of different common stocks by assessing how
             person As defined in securities law, an individual, cor-              much the market is willing to pay for a share of each
                 poration, partnership, association, fund, joint stock             corporation’s earnings. It is calculated by dividing the
                 company, unincorporated organization, trust, govern-              current market price of a stock by the earnings per
                 ment, or political subdivision of a government.                   share. Syn. earnings multiplier.
             personal income (PI) An individual’s total earnings               primary offering An offering in which the proceeds
                 derived from wages, passive business enterprises, and             of the underwriting go to the issuing corporation,
                 investments. See disposable income.                               agency, or municipality. The issuer seeks to increase
             Pink Sheets See OTC Link.                                             its capitalization either by selling shares of stock, rep-
             point A measure of a bond’s price; $10 or 1% of the par               resenting ownership, or by selling bonds, representing
                 value of $1,000. See basis point.                                 loans to the issuer. Syn. primary distribution.
             political risk The risk that an investment’s returns could        principal (1) Every business transaction has two princi-
                 suffer as a result of political changes or instability in a       pals—the buyer and the seller. When a broker-dealer
                 country such as from a change in government, orderly              trades for its own account, it is acting in the capacity
                 or not, nationalization of industries, or military con-           of a principal. (2) See dealer. (3) See par.
                 trol.                                                         principal office and place of business The firm’s
             portfolio income Earnings from interest, dividends, and               executive office from which the firm’s officers, part-
                 all nonbusiness investments. See earned income; pas-              ners, or managers direct, control, and coordinate the
                 sive income; unearned income.                                     activities of the firm.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 680                                                                                                                       7/15/2016 2:03:41 PM
                                                                                                                                     Glossary       681




                   principal transaction A transaction in which a broker-                                      Q
                       dealer either buys securities from customers and takes      QLAC A qualified longevity annuity contract. If certain
                       them into its own inventory or sells securities to              limits prescribed by the IRS are met, RMDs do not
                       customers from its inventory. See agency transaction;           have to include the value of these contracts until
                       agent; broker; dealer; principal.                               age 85.
                   private placement An offering of new issue securities
                                                                                   QTIP trust A trust that is funded with qualified termi-
                       that complies with Regulation D of the Securities Act           nable interest property, meaning that the spouse’s in-
                       of 1933. According to Regulation D, a security gener-           terest in the property terminates upon his death; also
                       ally is not required to be registered with the SEC if it        known as a Q trust, C trust, or current income trust.
                       is offered to no more than 35 nonaccredited investors       QTP See qualified tuition program.
                       or to an unlimited number of accredited investors.          Q trust See QTIP trust.
                       See Regulation D.                                           qualified dividends These are ordinary dividends sub-
                   profit-sharing plan An employee benefit plan estab-
                                                                                       ject to the same 0%, 15%, or 20% maximum tax rate
                       lished and maintained by an employer whereby the                that applies to net capital gain. The maximum rate of
                       employees receive a share of the business’s profits.            tax on qualified dividends is:
                       The money may be paid directly to the employees or              ■■ 0% on any amount that otherwise would be
                       deferred until retirement. A combination of both ap-                 taxed at a 10% or 15% rate,
                       proaches is also possible.
                   progressive tax A tax that takes a larger percentage of             ■■ 15% on any amount that otherwise would be
                       the income of high-income earners than that of low-                taxed at rates greater than 15% but less than
                       income earners. An example is the graduated income                 39.6%, and
                       tax. See regressive tax.                                        ■■ 20% on any amount that otherwise would be
                   proscribed A term commonly used in legal situations to                 taxed at a 39.6% rate.
                       describe a prohibited action.                                		    To qualify for the maximum rate, all of the fol-
                   prudent expert rule A modern application of the                    lowing requirements must be met.
                       prudent man rule to those with a fiduciary responsibil-        ■■ The dividends must have been paid by a U.S.
                       ity over qualified plans coming under the jurisdiction             corporation or a qualified foreign corporation.
                       of ERISA.
                                                                                       ■■ The dividends are not of the type such as those
                   prudent investor rule Legally known as the Uniform
                                                                                          paid out of short-term capital gains of a mutual
                       Prudent Investors Act of 1994 (UPIA). A modern
                                                                                          fund or dividends from a credit union or mutual
                       adaptation of the prudent man rule, which, as a result
                                                                                          savings bank (those two are reported as interest).
                       of the development of modern portfolio theory, ap-
                       plies the standard of prudence to the entire portfolio          ■■ Meeting the holding period of more than 60 days
                       rather than to individual investments. It requires the             during the 121-day period that begins 60 days
                       fiduciary to measure risk with respect to return.                  before the ex-dividend date. The period for pre-
                   publicly traded fund See closed-end investment com-                    ferred stock is longer.
                       pany.                                                       Qualified Domestic Relations Orders (QDROs)
                   public offering The sale of an issue of common stock,              Premature distributions that are taken pursuant
                       either by a corporation going public or by an offering         to a qualified domestic relations order, or QDRO,
                       of additional shares. See initial public offering.             are exempt from the 10% penalty. A QDRO is a
                   public offering price (POP) (1) The price of new                   court-issued order that gives someone the right to an
                       shares that is established in the issuing corporation’s        individual’s qualified plan assets, typically an ex- (or
                       prospectus. (2) The price to investors for mutual              soon-to-be-ex-) spouse, and the QDRO is usually is-
                       fund shares, equal to the net asset value plus the sales       sued in the course of divorce proceedings or to satisfy
                       charge. See ask; bid; mutual fund; net asset value.            child support obligations. A QDRO applies only to
                   purchasing power risk The potential that, because of               assets in a qualified employer plan; it would not be
                       inflation, a certain amount of money will not pur-             applicable to an IRA or a SEP.
                       chase as much in the future as it does today. Syn. infla-   qualified person Under both state and federal law, a
                       tion risk.                                                     client for whom an investment adviser may charge
                   put (1) An option contract giving the owner the right              performance-based fees. Currently, the requirements
                       to sell a certain amount of an underlying security at a        are a minimum net worth of $2 million or at least $1
                       specified price within a specified time. (2) The act of        million in AUM with that adviser.
                       exercising a put option. See call.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 681                                                                                                                   7/15/2016 2:03:41 PM
     682        Glossary




             qualified retirement plan A corporate retirement plan             registration by coordination A process that allows
                 that meets the standards set by the Employee Retire-              a security to be sold in a state. It is available to an
                 ment Income Security Act of 1974. Contributions                   issuer that files for the security’s registration under the
                 to a qualified plan are tax deductible. Syn. approved             Securities Act of 1933 and files duplicates of the regis-
                 plan. See also individual retirement account; Keogh               tration documents with the state Administrator. The
                 plan; nonqualified retirement plan.                               state registration becomes effective at the same time
             qualified tuition program The technical name for                      the federal registration statement becomes effective as
                 Section 529 Plans. Syn. QTP.                                      long as paperwork is on file with the Administrator for
             quick asset ratio A more stringent test of liquidity than             the required period, which ranges from 10 to 20 days
                 the current ratio. It is computed by taking the current           depending on the state.
                 assets, less the inventory, and dividing by the current       registration by qualification A process that allows a
                 liabilities. Syn. acid test ratio.                                security to be sold in a state. It is available to an issuer
             quick ratio Syn. acid test ratio, quick ratio.                        who files for the security’s registration with the state
             quotation The price or bid a market maker or broker-                  Administrator, meets minimum net worth, disclosure,
                 dealer offers for a particular security. Syn. quote.              and other requirements, and files appropriate registra-
                 See ask; bid; bond quote; stock quote.                            tion fees. The state registration becomes effective
             quote machine A computer that provides representa-                    when the Administrator so orders.
                 tives and market makers with the information that             registration statement The legal document that
                 appears on the Consolidated Tape. The information                 discloses all pertinent information concerning an of-
                 on the screen is condensed into symbols and numbers.              fering of a security and its issuer. It is submitted to the
                                                                                   SEC (and/or the Administrator) in accordance with
                                           R                                       the requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 and/or
                                                                                   the Uniform Securities Act, and it forms the basis of
             rating An evaluation of a corporate or municipal bond’s
                                                                                   the final prospectus distributed to investors.
                 relative safety, according to the issuer’s ability to repay
                                                                               regressive tax A tax that takes a larger percentage of
                 principal and make interest payments. Bonds are rated
                                                                                   the income of low-income earners than that of high-
                 by various organizations, such as Standard & Poor’s
                                                                                   income earners. Examples include gasoline tax and
                 and Moody’s. Ratings range from AAA or Aaa (the
                                                                                   cigarette tax. See progressive tax.
                 highest) to C or D, which represents a company in
                                                                               regulated investment company An investment
                 default.
                                                                                   company to which Subchapter M of the Internal
             rating service A company, such as Moody’s or Standard
                                                                                   Revenue Code grants special status that allows the
                 & Poor’s, that rates various debt and preferred stock
                                                                                   flow-through of tax consequences on a distribution to
                 issues for safety of payment of principal, interest, or
                                                                                   shareholders. If 90% of its income is passed through to
                 dividends. The issuing company or municipality pays
                                                                                   the shareholders, the company is not subject to tax on
                 a fee for the rating. See bond rating; rating.
                                                                                   this income.
             real estate investment trust (REIT) A corporation
                                                                               Regulation D The provision of the Securities Act of 1933
                 or trust that uses the pooled capital of many inves-
                                                                                   that exempts from registration offerings sold in private
                 tors to invest in direct ownership of either income
                                                                                   placements. Rule 506(b) limits the sale to a maxi­mum
                 property or mortgage loans. These investments offer
                                                                                   of 35 nonaccredited investors during a 12-month period
                 tax benefits in addition to interest and capital gains
                                                                                   with no advertising permitted, while Rule 506(c)
                 distributions. However, unlike DPPs, these are not
                                                                                   permits advertising but requires that all purchasers be
                 “flow-through” vehicles.
                                                                                   accredited investors. See private placement.
             realized gain The amount a taxpayer earns when he
                                                                               Regulation T The Federal Reserve Board regulation that
                 sells an asset. See unrealized gain.
                                                                                   governs customer cash accounts and the amount of
             recession A general economic decline lasting from six
                                                                                   credit that brokerage firms and dealers may extend to
                 to 18 months (at least two consecutive quarters of
                                                                                   customers for the purchase of securities. Regulation T
                 declining or negative DGP growth).
                                                                                   currently sets the loan value of marginable securities
             redeemable security A security that the issuer redeems
                                                                                   at 50% and the payment deadline at two days beyond
                 upon the holder’s request. Examples include shares in
                                                                                   regular way settlement. Syn. Reg. T.
                 an open-end investment company.
                                                                               regulatory risk The risk that changes in regulations may
             regional exchange A stock exchange that serves the
                                                                                   negatively affect the operations of a company.
                 financial community in a particular region of the
                                                                               remainderman A remainderman is the person who
                 country. These exchanges tend to focus on securities
                                                                                   inherits or is entitled under the law to inherit property
                 issued within their regions, but also offer trading in
                                                                                   upon termination of the estate of the former owner.
                 NYSE and Nasdaq-listed securities.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 682                                                                                                                        7/15/2016 2:03:41 PM
                                                                                                                                          Glossary      683




                       Usually, this occurs due to the death or termination of            issued for a short time only, after which they expire.
                       the former owner’s life estate.                                    Syn. subscription right; subscription right certificate.
                   remuneration Money paid for work performed or a                    risk-adjusted return Return from a security adjusted
                       service provided.                                                  for the market risk associated with it. Usually mea-
                   repurchase agreement Sometimes just referred to as a                   sured by the Sharpe Ratio.
                       REPO, this is widely used in the money market where            risk-free rate Generally refers to the interest rate of 90-
                       the seller of a security agrees to buy it back (repur-             day U.S. Treasury bills.
                       chase it) at a higher price (the imputed interest rate).       risk premium The amount in excess of the risk-free
                   required minimum distribution (RMD) The amount                         rate demanded by investors to compensate for the
                       that traditional and SEP IRA owners and qualified                  additional risks inherent in the specific security being
                       plan participants must begin withdrawing from their                described.
                       retirement accounts by April 1 following the year they         risk tolerance Risk tolerance is an investor’s ability and
                       reach age 70½. Exceptions apply to those covered                   willingness to lose some or all of the original invest-
                       under a qualified plan who are still employed. RMD                 ment in exchange for greater potential returns. An
                       amounts must then be distributed by December 31                    aggressive investor, or one with a high risk tolerance,
                       that year and each subsequent year.                                is more likely to risk losing money in order to get
                   residual claim The right of a common stockholder to                    better results. A conservative investor, or one with
                       corporate assets in the event that the corporation                 a low-risk tolerance, tends to favor investments that
                       ceases to exist. A common stockholder may claim                    will preserve the original investment.
                       assets only after the claims of all creditors and other        RMD See required minimum distribution.
                       security holders have been satisfied.                          Roth 401(k) As with a Roth IRA, contributions are not
                   restricted security An unregistered, nonexempt                         tax deductible, but qualified withdrawals are free from
                       security acquired either directly or indirectly from the           income tax. There are no earnings limits in order to
                       issuer, or an affiliate of the issuer, in a transaction that       participate, but it is required that distributions begin
                       does not involve a public offering. See holding period;            no later than age 70½.
                       Rule 144.                                                      Roth IRA Funded with after-tax contributions, but, if
                   retained earnings The amount of a corporation’s                        qualified, withdrawals are tax-free. There are earnings
                       net income that remains after all dividends have                   limits but no required distributions at age 70½.
                       been paid to preferred and common stockholders.                Rule 144 SEC rule requiring that persons who hold
                       Syn. earned surplus; reinvested earnings.                          control or restricted securities may sell them only in
                   return on investment (ROI) The profit or loss result-                  limited quantities, and that all sales of restricted stock
                       ing from a security transaction, often expressed as an             by control persons must be reported to the SEC by fil-
                       annual percentage rate.                                            ing a Form 144, Notice of Proposed Sale of Securities.
                   revenue bond A municipal debt issue whose interest                     See control security; restricted security.
                       and principal are payable only from the specific earn-         Rule 147 SEC rule that provides exemption from the
                       ings of an income-producing public project.                        registration statement and prospectus requirements of
                   reverse churning The prohibited practice of parking                    the 1933 Act for securities offered and sold exclu-
                       assets that will only be traded infrequently in a fee-             sively intrastate.
                       based advisory account.
                   reverse split A reduction in the number of a corpora-                                            S
                       tion’s shares outstanding that increases the par value
                                                                                      safe harbor A provision in a regulatory scheme that
                       of its stock or its earnings per share. The market
                                                                                          provides protection against legal action if stated
                       value of the total number of shares remains the same.
                                                                                          procedures are followed. In this exam, it may ap-
                       See stock split.
                                                                                          ply in three different cases: (1) Section 28(e) of the
                   revocable trust A trust that can be altered or canceled
                                                                                          Securities Exchange Act of 1934 describes those
                       by the grantor. During the life of the trust, income
                                                                                          research and brokerage activities that may be received
                       earned is distributed to the grantor, and only after
                                                                                          by an investment adviser in exchange for directed
                       death does property transfer to the beneficiaries.
                                                                                          brokerage transactions; (2) Section 404c of ERISA
                   right A security representing a stockholder’s entitlement
                                                                                          describes what a fiduciary of a qualified plan must do
                       to the first opportunity to purchase new shares issued
                                                                                          to minimize personal responsibility; and (3) top-heavy
                       by the corporation at a predetermined price (normally
                                                                                          401(k) concerns are minimized if the employer covers
                       less than the current market price) in proportion
                                                                                          all employees with immediate vesting. See soft-dollar
                       to the number of shares already owned. Rights are
                                                                                          compensation; top heavy.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 683                                                                                                                       7/15/2016 2:03:41 PM
     684        Glossary




             sales load The amount added to a mutual fund share’s                 success. Syn. Sector rotating. See active management
                 net asset value to arrive at the offering price. See mu-         style.
                 tual fund; net asset value; no-load fund.                    secured bond A debt security backed by identifiable as-
             Savings Incentive Match Plan for Employees A                         sets set aside as collateral. In the event that the issuer
                 form of employer sponsored IRA for businesses that               defaults on payment, the bondholders may lay claim
                 have 100 or fewer employees who earned $5,000 or                 to the collateral. See debenture.
                 more during the preceding calendar year. In addition,        Securities Act of 1933 Federal legislation requiring
                 the employer cannot currently have another retire-               the full and fair disclosure of all material information
                 ment plan.                                                       about the issuance of new securities. Syn. Act of 1933;
             S corporation A small business corporation that meets                Full Disclosure Act; New Issues Act; Prospectus Act;
                 certain requirements and is taxed as a partnership               Trust in Securities Act; Truth in Securities Act.
                 while retaining limited liability. Syn. Subchapter S         Securities Amendments Act of 1975 Federal
                 corporation.                                                     legislation that established the Municipal Securities
             Schedule K-1 The form supplied by a partnership, LLC,                Rulemaking Board.
                 or S corporation to owners indicating their propor-          Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Com-
                 tionate share of income/loss to be reported on their             mission created by Congress to regulate the securities
                 Form 1040 tax returns.                                           markets and protect investors. It is composed of five
             secondary distribution A distribution, with a prospec-               commissioners appointed by the President of the
                 tus, that involves securities owned by major stock-              United States with the advice and consent of the
                 holders (typically founders or principal owners of a             Senate. The SEC enforces, among other acts, the
                 corporation). The sale proceeds go to the sellers of the         Securities Act of 1933, the Securities Exchange Act
                 stock, not to the issuer.                                        of 1934, the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, the Invest-
             secondary market The market in which securities are                  ment Company Act of 1940, and the Investment
                 bought and sold subsequent to their being sold to the            Advisers Act of 1940.
                 public for the first time. See new issue market.             Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Federal legislation
             secondary offering A sale of securities in which one                 that established the Securities and Exchange Com-
                 or more major stockholders in a company sell all or              mission. The act aims to protect investors by regulat-
                 a large portion of their holdings; the underwriting              ing the exchanges, the OTC market, the extension of
                 proceeds are paid to the stockholders rather than to             credit by the Federal Reserve Board, broker-dealers,
                 the corporation. Typically, such an offering occurs              insider transactions, trading activities, client accounts,
                 when the founder of a business (and perhaps some of              and net capital. Syn. Act of 1934; Exchange Act.
                 the original financial backers) determine that there         Securities Information Processor (SIP) A system
                 is more to be gained by going public than by staying             that consolidates quote and trade data for U.S. stocks.
                 private. The offering does not increase the number of        Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC)
                 shares of stock outstanding. See secondary distribu-             A nonprofit membership corporation created by
                 tion.                                                            an act of Congress to protect clients of brokerage
             Section 457 Plan A deferred compensation plan set up                 firms that are forced into bankruptcy. Membership is
                 under Section 457 of the tax code that may be used               composed of all brokers and dealers registered under
                 by employees of a state, political subdivision of a state,       the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, all members of
                 and any agency or instrumentality of a state. This               national securities exchanges, and most FINRA mem-
                 plan may also be offered to employees of certain tax-            bers. SIPC provides brokerage firm customers up to
                 exempt organizations (hospitals, charitable organiza-            $500,000 coverage for cash and securities held by the
                 tions, unions, and so forth), but NOT churches. Even             firms (although cash coverage is limited to $250,000).
                 independent contractors may be covered under these           security Other than an insurance policy or a fixed annu-
                 plans.                                                           ity, any piece of securitized paper that can be traded
             Section 28(e) A code section of the Securities Ex-                   for value. Under the Act of 1934, this includes any
                 change Act of 1934 hat deals with soft-dollar com-               note, stock, bond, investment contract, debenture,
                 pensation. See soft-dollar compensation; state harbor.           certificate of interest in a profit-sharing or partner-
             sector rotation An active portfolio management tech-                 ship agreement, certificate of deposit, collateral trust
                 nique that attempts to take advantage of the fact that           certificate, preorganization certificate, option on a
                 different sectors of the economy rise and fall in the            security, or other instrument of investment commonly
                 business cycle at different times. Rotating from one             known as a security.
                 to the other at the right times can lead to investment




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 684                                                                                                                     7/15/2016 2:03:41 PM
                                                                                                                                          Glossary      685




                   security market index A security market index is used              settlor An individual or organization that gifts assets
                        to represent the performance of an asset class, security          to a beneficiary by transferring fiduciary duty to a
                        market, or segment of a market. They are usually cre-             third-party trustee that will maintain the assets for the
                        ated as portfolios of individual securities, which are            benefit of the beneficiaries. Syn. grantor, trustor.
                        referred to as the constituent securities of the index.       Sharpe ratio The Sharpe ratio measures the risk
                        An index has a numerical value that is calculated                 adjusted return of an investment. It is calculated by
                        from the market prices (actual when available, or                 dividing the excess return of an asset over the 90-day
                        estimated) of its constituent securities at a point in            Treasury bill rate by its standard deviation. It measures
                        time. An index return is the percentage change in the             the reward per unit of risk so the higher the ratio, the
                        index’s value over a period of time. Popular examples             better.
                        are the S&P 500 and the Russell 2000.                         short The term used to describe the selling of a security,
                   self-regulatory organization (SRO) One of eight                        contract, or commodity that the seller does not own.
                        organizations accountable to the SEC for the enforce-             For example, an investor who borrows shares of stock
                        ment of federal securities laws and the supervision               from a broker-dealer and sells them on the open
                        of securities practices within an assigned field of               market is said to have a short position in the stock.
                        jurisdiction. For example, the National Association               See long.
                        of Securities Dealers regulates the over-the-counter          short sale The sale of a security that the seller does not
                        market; the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board                 own, or any sale consummated by the delivery of a
                        supervises state and municipal securities; and certain            security borrowed by or for the account of the seller.
                        stock exchanges, such as the New York Stock Ex-               short-term capital gain The profit realized on the sale
                        change and the Chicago Board Options Exchange, act                of an asset that has been owned for 12 months or less.
                        as self-regulatory bodies to promote ethical conduct              See capital gain; capital loss; short-term capital loss.
                        and standard trading practices.                               short-term capital loss The loss incurred on the sale
                   sell To convey ownership of a security or another asset                of a capital asset that has been owned for 12 months
                        for money or value. This includes giving or delivering            or less. See capital gain; capital loss; short-term capital
                        a security with or as a bonus for a purchase of securi-           gain.
                        ties, a gift of assessable stock, and selling or offering a   side-by-side management The practice of manag-
                        warrant or right to purchase or subscribe to another              ing accounts that are charged performance-based fees
                        security. Not included in the definition is a bona                while at the same time managing accounts that are
                        fide pledge or loan or a stock dividend if nothing of             not charged performance-based fees.
                        value is given by the stockholders for the dividend.          S.I.M.P.L.E. Plan See Savings Incentive Match Plan for
                        Syn. sale.                                                        Employees.
                   selling away An associated person engaging in private              simple trust A trust that accumulates income and dis-
                        securities transactions without the employing broker-             tributes it to its beneficiaries on an annual basis.
                        dealer’s knowledge and consent. This violates the             small-cap Stocks with a market capitalization of $300
                        NASAA Policy on prohibited practices.                             million to $2 billion.
                   selling dividends Inducing customers to buy mutual                 soft-dollar compensation Noncash compensation re-
                        fund shares by implying that an upcoming distribution             ceived by an investment adviser from a broker-dealer,
                        will benefit them. This practice is illegal.                      generally in exchange for directed brokerage trans-
                   sell stop order An order to sell a security that is entered            actions. Must always be disclosed and should come
                        at a price below the current market price and that                under the safe harbor provisions of Section 28(e). See
                        is triggered when the market price touches or goes                safe harbor.
                        through the sell stop price.                                  solicitor A person either contracted or employed by
                   senior security A security that grants its holder a prior              an investment adviser for the purpose of bringing in
                        claim to the issuer’s assets over the claims of another           advisory business. If an employee, registration as an
                        security’s holders. For example, a bond is a senior               IAR is required. If contracted, the person must not be
                        security over common stock.                                       statutorily disqualified from registration and is subject
                   separate account The account that holds funds paid                     to the terms of a written agreement between the IA
                        by variable annuity contract holders. The funds are               and the solicitor.
                        kept separate from the insurer’s general account and          specialist Stock exchange member who stands ready to
                        are invested in a portfolio of securities that match the          quote and trade certain securities either for his own
                        contract holders’ objectives. See accumulation unit;              account or for customer accounts. The specialist’s role
                        annuity.                                                          is to maintain a fair and orderly market in the stocks




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 685                                                                                                                       7/15/2016 2:03:42 PM
     686        Glossary




                 for which he is responsible. Syn. designated market        stop limit order A customer order that becomes a limit
                 maker, DMM.                                                    order when the market price of the security reaches or
             speculation Trading a security with a higher than                  passes a specific price. See limit order; stop order.
                 average risk in return for a higher than average profit    stop order (1) A directive from the SEC or the Admin-
                 potential. The trade is effected solely for the purpose        istrator that suspends the sale of new issue securities to
                 of profiting from it and not as a means of hedging or          the public when fraud is suspected or filing materials
                 protecting other positions.                                    are deficient. (2) A customer order that becomes a
             spousal IRA A separate individual retirement account               market order when the market price of the security
                 established for a spouse with little or no earned              reaches or passes a specific price. See limit order; mar-
                 income. Contributions to the account made by the               ket order; stop limit order.
                 working spouse grow tax deferred until withdrawal.         street name Term used in the industry to refer to cus-
             spread In a quotation, the difference between a security’s         tomer securities held in the name of the broker-dealer
                 bid and ask prices.                                            as nominee.
             Standard & Poor’s Composite Index of 500 Stocks                subordinated debenture A debt obligation, backed
                 (S&P 500) A value-weighted index that offers broad             by the general credit of the issuing corporation, that
                 coverage of the securities market. It is composed of           has claims to interest and principal subordinated to
                 400 industrial stocks, 40 financial stocks, 40 public          ordinary debentures and all other liabilities. See de-
                 utility stocks, and 20 transportation stocks. The index        benture.
                 is owned and compiled by Standard & Poor’s Cor-            suitability A determination made by an agent as to
                 poration. See index; Standard & Poor’s Corporation;            whether a particular security matches a customer’s
                 Standard & Poor’s 100 Stock Index.                             objectives and financial capability. The agent must
             Standard & Poor’s Corporation (S&P) A company                      have enough information about the customer to make
                 that rates stocks and corporate and municipal bonds            this judgment.
                 according to risk profiles and that produces and tracks    supply The total amount of a good or service available
                 the S&P indexes. The company also publishes a                  for purchase by consumers. See demand.
                 variety of financial and investment reports. See bond      systematic risk The potential for a security to decrease
                 rating; Moody’s Investors Service; rating; Standard &          in value owing to its inherent tendency to move
                 Poor’s 100 Stock Index; Standard & Poor’s Composite            together with all securities of the same type. Neither
                 Index of 500 Stocks.                                           diversification nor any other investment strategy can
             standard deviation A measurement of a security’s or a              eliminate this risk. Systematic risks are sometimes
                 portfolio’s total risk. The greater the standard devia-        referred to as external risk factors because they take
                 tion, the more the security’s returns deviate from its         place outside of the company being analized See mar-
                 average return, hence indicating greater volatility. See       ket risk; unsystematic risk.
                 total risk.
             standardized contract A futures contract in which all                                        T
                 the contract terms are set by the exchange except for
                                                                            taxable gain The portion of a sale or distribution of
                 price.
                                                                                mutual fund shares subject to taxation.
             stock certificate Printed evidence of ownership in a
                                                                            tax credit An amount that can be subtracted from a tax
                 corporation.
                                                                                liability, often in connection with real estate develop-
             stock exchange Any organization, association, or group
                                                                                ment, energy conservation, and research and develop-
                 of persons that maintains or provides a marketplace
                                                                                ment programs. Every dollar of tax credit reduces the
                 in which securities can be bought and sold. Examples
                                                                                amount of tax due, dollar for dollar. See deduction.
                 include the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), the
                                                                            tax-equivalent yield The rate of return a taxable bond
                 London Stock Exchange (LSE), and the Tokyo Stock
                                                                                must earn before taxes in order to equal the tax-
                 Exchange (TSE).
                                                                                exempt earnings on a municipal bond. This number
             stock split An increase in the number of a corporation’s
                                                                                varies with the investor’s tax bracket.
                 outstanding shares, which decreases its stock’s par
                                                                            tax-exempt bond fund A mutual fund whose in-
                 value. The market value of the total number of shares
                                                                                vestment objective is to provide maximum tax-free
                 remains the same. The proportional reductions in or-
                                                                                income. It invests primarily in municipal bonds and
                 ders held on the books for a split stock are calculated
                                                                                short-term debt. Syn. tax-free bond fund.
                 by dividing the stock’s market price by the fraction
                                                                            tax liability The amount of tax payable on earnings, usu-
                 that represents the split.
                                                                                ally calculated by subtracting standard and itemized
                                                                                deductions and personal exemptions from adjusted




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 686                                                                                                                   7/15/2016 2:03:42 PM
                                                                                                                                      Glossary      687




                       gross income, then multiplying by the tax rate. See ad-        more comfortable taking on a riskier, or more volatile,
                       justed gross income.                                           investment because that investor can wait out slow
                   tax preference item An element of income that                      economic cycles and the inevitable ups and downs of
                       receives favorable tax treatment. The item must be             our markets. By contrast, an investor saving up for a
                       added to taxable income when computing alternative             teenager’s college education would likely take on less
                       minimum tax. Tax preference items include acceler-             risk because of the shorter time horizon.
                       ated depreciation on property, research and develop-       time value The amount an investor pays for an option
                       ment costs, intangible drilling costs, tax-exempt inter-       above its intrinsic value; it reflects the amount of time
                       est on municipal private purpose bonds, and certain            left until expiration. The amount is calculated by
                       incentive stock options. See alternative minimum tax.          subtracting the intrinsic value from the premium paid.
                   tax-sheltered annuity (TSA) An annuity contract                    See intrinsic value.
                       that entitles the holder to exclude all contributions      tombstone advertisement A printed advertisement
                       from gross income in the year they are made. Taxes             that is used to generate interest in a securities offering.
                       payable on the earnings are deferred until the holder          The text is limited to basic information about the of-
                       withdraws funds at retirement. TSAs are available pri-         fering, such as the name of the issuer, type of security,
                       marily through a 403(b) plan to employees of public            names of the underwriters, and where a prospectus is
                       schools, church organizations, and other tax-exempt            available. A tombstone ad is not considered to be an
                       organizations. Syn. tax-deferred annuity.                      offering of the subject security.
                   technical analysis A method of evaluating securities           top heavy The term used to describe a 401(k) plan that
                       by analyzing statistics generated by market activity,          offers a disproportionate benefit to key employees.
                       such as past prices and volume. Technical analysts do          Top‑heavy testing must be done on an annual basis
                       not attempt to measure a security’s intrinsic value.           unless the plan qualifies as a safe harbor 401(k). See
                       See chartist; fundamental analysis.                            safe harbor.
                   Telephone Consumer Protection Act of 1991                      total capitalization The sum of a corporation’s long-
                       (TCPA) Federal legislation restricting the use of              term debt, stock accounts, and capital in excess of par.
                       telephone lines for solicitation purposes. A company       total risk (As measured by standard deviation) can be
                       soliciting sales via telephone, facsimile, or email must       broken down into its component parts: unsystematic
                       disclose its name and address to the called party and          risk and systematic risk. That is, total risk = systematic
                       must not call any person who has requested not to be           risk + unsystematic risk.
                       called.                                                    toxic debt Debt whose quality has dropped and is now
                   tenants in common (TIC) A form of joint ownership                  indicating a high likelihood of default. This can be
                       of an account whereby a deceased tenant’s fractional           toxic for the investor’s portfolio.
                       interest in the account is retained by his estate.         trading authorization See full trading authorization;
                       Syn. tenants in common. See joint tenants with right           limited trading authorization.
                       of survivorship.                                           tranche A class of bonds. Collateralized mortgage obliga-
                   tergiversation The practice of continually changing                tions are structured with several tranches of bonds
                       one’s mind, attitude, or opinion.                              that have various maturities.
                   testamentary trust A trust created as a result of in-          transfer agent A person or corporation responsible for
                       structions from a deceased’s last will and testament.          recording the names and holdings of registered secu-
                   testimonial An endorsement of an investment or service             rity owners, seeing that certificates are signed by the
                       by a celebrity or public opinion influencer. The use of        appropriate corporate officers, affixing the corporate
                       testimonials by investment advisers is prohibited.             seal, and delivering securities to the new owners.
                   theta One of the 4 Greeks used by options analysts. An         Treasury bill A marketable U.S. government debt
                       option’s theta is a measurement of the option’s time           security with a maturity of less than one year. Treasury
                       decay. The theta measures the rate at which op-                bills are issued through a competitive bidding process
                       tions lose their value, specifically the time value, as        at a discount from par; they have no fixed interest
                       the expiration date draws nearer. Generally expressed          rate. Syn. T-bill.
                       as a negative number, the theta of an option reflects      Treasury bond A marketable, fixed-interest U.S. gov-
                       the amount by which the option’s value will decrease           ernment debt security with a maturity of more than
                       every day.                                                     10 years. Syn. T-bond.
                   time horizon Time horizon is the expected number               Treasury note A marketable, fixed-interest U.S. govern-
                       of months, years, or decades over which the invest-            ment debt security with a maturity of between 2 and
                       ments will be made to achieve a particular financial           10 years. Syn. T-note.
                       goal. An investor with a longer time horizon may feel




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 687                                                                                                                   7/15/2016 2:03:42 PM
     688        Glossary




             trough The end of a period of declining business activity           are taxed at the parent’s rate. See Uniform Gift to
                 throughout the economy, one of the four stages of the           Minors Act.
                 business cycle. See business cycle.                         unit A share in the ownership of a direct participation
             trustee A person legally appointed to act on a benefi-              program that entitles the investor to an interest in the
                 ciary’s behalf.                                                 program’s net income, net loss, and distributions.
             trustor An individual or organization that gifts assets         unit investment trust (UIT) An investment com-
                 to a beneficiary by transferring fiduciary duty to a            pany that sells redeemable shares in a professionally
                 third-party trustee that will maintain the assets for the       selected portfolio of securities. It is organized under a
                 benefit of the beneficiaries. Syn. settlor, grantor.            trust indenture, not a corporate charter.
             12b-1 asset-based fees Investment Company Act of                unrealized gain The amount by which a security ap-
                 1940 provision that allows a mutual fund to collect             preciates in value before it is sold. Until it is sold, the
                 a fee for the promotion or sale of or another activity          investor does not actually possess the sale proceeds.
                 connected with the distribution of its shares. This fee         See realized gain.
                 will not exceed .75%.                                       unsystematic risk The potential for an unforeseen
                                                                                 event to affect the value of a specific investment.
                                           U                                     Examples of such events include strikes, natural disas­
                                                                                 ters, poor management decisions, introductions of
             underlying securities The securities that are bought or
                                                                                 new product lines, and attempted takeovers. This risk
                   sold when an option, right, or warrant is exercised.
                                                                                 is diversifiable. Unsystematic risks are sometimes re-
             underwriter An investment banker that works with an
                                                                                 ferred to as internal risk factors because they deal with
                 issuer to help bring a security to the market and sell it
                                                                                 risk arising from the events taking place within the
                 to the public.
                                                                                 company Syn. nonsystematic risk. See systematic risk.
             underwriting The procedure by which investment
                                                                             U.S. government and agency bond fund A mutual
                 bankers channel investment capital from investors
                                                                                 fund whose investment objective is to provide current
                 to corporations and municipalities that are issuing
                                                                                 income while preserving safety of capital through
                 securities.
                                                                                 investing in securities backed by the U.S. Treasury or
             unearned income Income derived from investments
                                                                                 issued by a government agency.
                 and other sources not related to employment services.
                 Examples of unearned income include interest from
                 a savings account, bond interest, and dividends from                                      V
                 stock. See earned income; passive income; portfolio         value style investing A management style that looks
                 income.                                                         for stocks currently selling at distressed prices that
             Uniform Gift to Minors Act (UGMA) Legislation that                  have solid underlying fundamentals. These stocks
                 permits a gift of money or securities to be given to a          typically sell at the lower end of their 52-week price
                 minor and held in a custodial account that an adult             range and have low P/E ratios and higher than aver-
                 manages for the minor’s benefit. Income and capital             age dividend payout ratios. See growth style investing.
                 gains transferred to a minor’s name are usually taxed       vega One of the 4 Greeks used by options analysts. An
                 at the minor’s rate. However, if the child is under             option’s vega is a measure of the impact of changes in
                 a specified age and has unearned income above a                 the underlying volatility on the option price. Specifi-
                 certain level, those earnings are taxed at the parent’s         cally, the vega of an option expresses the change in
                 rate. See Uniform Transfers to Minors Act.                      the price of the option for every 1% change in under-
             Uniform Securities Act (USA) Model legislation for                  lying volatility.
                 securities industry regulation at the state level. Each     vesting (1) An ERISA guideline stipulating that employ-
                 state may adopt the legislation in its entirety or it may       ees must be entitled to their entire retirement benefits
                 adapt it (within limits) to suit its needs.                     within a certain period of time even if no longer
             Uniform Transfers to Minors Act (UTMA) Legis-                       employed. (2) The amount of time that an employee
                 lation adopted in most states that permits a gift of            must work before retirement or before benefit plan
                 money or securities to be given to a minor and held             contributions made by the employer become the
                 in a custodial account that an adult manages for the            employee’s property without penalty. The IRS and the
                 minor’s benefit until the minor reaches a certain age           Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974
                 (not necessarily the age of majority). Income and               set minimum requirements for vesting in a qualified
                 capital gains transferred to a minor’s name are usu-            plan.
                 ally taxed at the minor’s rate. However, just as with       volatility The magnitude and frequency of changes in
                 UGMA, if the child is under a specified age and has             the price of a security or commodity within a given
                 unearned income above a certain level, those earnings           period.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 688                                                                                                                     7/15/2016 2:03:42 PM
                                                                                                                                   Glossary      689




                                               W                                                              Y
                   warrant A security that gives the holder the right to pur-     yield The rate of return on an investment, usually
                       chase securities from the warrant issuer at a stipulated       expressed as an annual percentage rate. See current
                       subscription price. Warrants are usually long-term             yield; dividend yield; nominal yield.
                       instruments, with expiration dates years in the future.    yield curve A graphic representation of the actual or
                   wash sale Selling a security at a loss for tax purposes            projected yields of fixed-income securities in rela-
                       and, within 30 days before or after, purchasing the            tion to their maturities. In most cases, the securities
                       same or a substantially identical security. The IRS            of a single issuer are plotted over varying maturities.
                       disallows the claimed loss.                                    See flat yield curve; inverted yield curve.
                   wash trade A wash trade occurs when a customer enters          yield spread The difference in yield between two
                       a purchase order and a sale order for the same security        securities, usually with similar quality and different
                       at the same time. It is done to create a false appear-         maturities or similar maturities and different quality.
                       ance of activity in a security. This is a prohibited           Syn. credit spread.
                       practice.                                                  yield to call (YTC) The rate of return on a bond that ac-
                   Wells notice A Wells notice indicates that the regula-             counts for the difference between the bond’s acquisi-
                       tor intends to bring an enforcement action against             tion cost and its proceeds, including interest income,
                       an individual or a business. If the notice is against a        calculated to the earliest date that the bond may be
                       publicly traded company, it usually has the effect of          called by the issuing corporation. See bond yield.
                       depressing the current market price.                       yield to maturity (YTM) The rate of return on a bond
                   Wilshire 5000 The Wilshire 5000 Total Market Index                 that accounts for the difference between the bond’s
                       represents the broadest index for the U.S. equity              acquisition cost and its maturity proceeds, including
                       market, measuring the performance of all U.S. equity           interest income. See bond yield.
                       securities with readily available price data. As of the
                       date of printing, it includes some 3,700 issues.                                       Z
                   working capital A measure of a corporation’s liquid-
                                                                                  zero-coupon bond A debt security usually issued at
                       ity—that is, its ability to transfer assets into cash to
                                                                                      a deep discount from face value. The bond pays no
                       meet current short-term obligations. It is calculated by
                                                                                      interest; rather, it may be surrendered at maturity for
                       subtracting total current liabilities from total current
                                                                                      its full face value. The duration of a zero-coupon bond
                       assets.
                                                                                      is equal to its maturity.
                   wrap fee program Any advisory program under which
                       a specified fee or fees not based directly upon trans-
                       actions in a client’s account is charged for invest-
                       ment advisory services (which may include portfolio
                       management or advice concerning the selection of
                       other investment advisers) and the execution of cli-
                       ent transactions. The exclusion from the definition
                       of investment adviser available under both state and
                       federal law to broker-dealers is not in effect for those
                       offering wrap fee programs.




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 689                                                                                                                7/15/2016 2:03:42 PM
Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 690   7/15/2016 2:03:42 PM
                       Index

                   Symbols                                    asset allocation 497                    cash withdrawal 362
                                                              asset allocation funds 329              catch-up contributions
                   70% corporate dividend exclusion 530       asset-balance sheet                       for older IRA owners 576
                   401(k) plans 603                             current 418                           CCO 230
                   403(b) plans                                 fixed 417                             chief compliance officer 230
                     contribution limits 593                    other 418                             churning 27, 108
                     definition of employee 593               asset-based sales load 34               civil liabilities 138, 139
                     eligibility requirements 592             assumed interest rate (AIR) 353         classes of mutual fund shares 327
                     tax advantages 591                       average                                 client personal profile 481
                   506(c) of Regulation D 85                    cost basis 526                        closed-end 32
                                                                                                      closed-end investment company 324
                   A                                          B                                       combination annuity 349
                   access person 192                                                                  commingled 111
                                                              back-end load 332
                   account                                                                            common 275
                                                              balance sheet equation
                     opening cash and margin accounts 543                                             common enterprise 80
                                                                  417
                   accredited investor 52, 97                                                         common stock
                                                              basic economics 409
                   accumulation stage 351                                                               current yield 422
                                                              bearish investor 377
                   accumulation units 351                                                             compensation 50, 158
                                                              bearish position 376
                   acid test ratio 419                                                                complaints 117
                                                              benchmark portfolios 568
                   active and passive management                                                      conduct investigations 131
                                                              beneficiary 471
                       499                                                                            consent to service of process 70
                                                              bid price 324
                   administrative personnel                                                           consumer price index 411, 416
                                                              blue-sky laws 48
                     exclusions from definition of agent 62                                           contingent deferred sales load (CDSC)
                                                              bond 291
                   administrator 45, 47                                                                        326
                                                              bond yields 298
                     jurisdiction of 124                                                              contracting 409
                                                              book value per share 420
                     powers of 97                                                                     control 175
                                                              breakout 285
                     power to conduct investigations 131                                              control person 16, 28
                                                              breakpoints 38, 119, 327
                     power to deny, suspend, cancel, or                                                 investment adviser 175
                                                              breakpoint sale 328
                            revoke registrations 133                                                    investment company 36
                                                              brochure rule 193, 199
                     power to make, amend, or rescind rules                                             stock 17
                                                              brochures 174
                            and orders 130                                                            contumacy 131
                                                              brochure supplements 174
                   advertising 212                                                                    cooling-off period 10
                                                              broker 18
                   affiliates 16                                                                      coordination 88
                                                              broker-dealer 49, 55
                   after-tax return 564                                                               correlation coefficient 438
                                                                differences between 551
                   agency cross transaction 219, 220                                                  cost basis 524
                                                                financial requirements 60
                   agent 62                                                                             gifted securities 527
                                                                net capital requirements 60
                     exclusions from definition of agent 62                                             inherited securities 527
                                                                role of 549
                     termination procedures 71                                                          purchased securities 525
                                                                under the Uniform Securities Act 55
                   AMT 520                                                                            Coverdell Education Savings Accounts
                                                              bullish position 376
                   analysts                                                                                    (Coverdell ESAs) 487, 490, 614
                                                              business cycle 409
                     fundamental technical 283                                                        covered call writing 379
                                                              business of advising 50
                   annualized returns from investment 563                                             CPI 411, 416, 563
                                                              business risk 447
                   annuitant 347                                                                      credit risk 447
                                                              buy and hold technique 499
                   annuitizing 351                                                                    criminal penalties
                                                                                                        SEC 40
                   annuity                                    C
                     advantages 357                                                                     USA 140
                     payments, variable 351, 358              cancellation of registration 137        current asset 417
                     plans 347, 350                           capital                                 current offer 551
                     unit 353                                   appreciation 275                      current yield
                   appeals 40, 143, 232                         gains and losses 275, 524               bond 302
                   arbitrage 115                                structure 418                           stock 422
                   ask price 324                              capital asset pricing model 504         custodial account for minors 621
                   assessable stock 126                       cash surrender value 359                custody of funds and securities 202
                                                                                                      cyclical industries 410


                                                                                                                                             691




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 691                                                                                                             7/15/2016 2:03:42 PM
        692        Index



        D                                         estate and gift taxes 534                hybrid REITs 337
                                                  excess IRA contributions 582             hypothecation 111
        day order 552                             exchange market 547                       agreement 543
        dealer 18                                 exchange-traded fund 336
        default risk 447                          exclusion ratio 356                      I
        defensive industries 411                  exempt 51
        deferred compensation plan 613                                                     immediate annuity 350
                                                    securities 90
        deficiency letter 10                                                               income reinvestment 513
                                                    transaction 51, 63, 90, 91, 95
        defined benefit plan 602                                                           index annuity 349
                                                  expansion 409
        deflation 412                                                                      individual 50
                                                    economic 415
        de minimis exemption 169                                                           individual account 463
                                                  expense risk fee 364
        depressions 409                                                                    individual retirement account 575
        derivatives 373                           F                                          characteristics of 581
        developed markets 281                                                                contributions 582
        direct participation program 390          federal covered investment adviser 165     direct transfer 585
          advantages 392                          federal covered security 85                excess contributions 582
          disadvantages 392                       Federal Reserve Board (FRB) 543            ineligible investments 583
          evaluation of 391                       fiduciary 155, 209, 298, 475               investment practices 583
        disclosure and consent 208                fiduciary accounts 475                     nondeductible capital withdrawals 581
        discount (below par) 303                  FIFO 526                                   participation 581
        discretion 22, 110                        filing fees 71                             rollover 584
        discretionary account 22                  final order 48                           inflation 411
        distributable net income 532              financial goals 485                      inflation adjusted return 563
        diversification modern portfolio theory   financial statements                     inflation risk 446
                 and 504                             footnotes 421                         initial application 69
        diversified investment companies 32       first out 355                            initial public offering 5, 83
        dividend exclusion rule 530               fixed annuity 347                        insider 16, 28
        dividends 275                             fixed assets 417                         institution 52
        dollar cost averaging 512                 fixed-premium 363                        institutional investor 97
        donee 527                                 footnotes 421                            interest rate risk 445
        donor 527, 622                            foreign markets                          interest rates 413
        Dow Jones Industrial Average 568              investment risks 280                   inverse relationship with prices
        DRIPs 513                                 Form 13F 25                                       305–306
                                                  Form ADV-W 177                             nominal and real 413
        E                                         Form BD 24                               internal rate of return 430
                                                  fraud 51, 142                            intrastate offering 8
        EAFE 570                                  fraudulent and prohibited practices      investment adviser 50, 67
        economic concepts                            providing investment advice 223       investment adviser code of ethics 192,
          efficient market hypothesis 508         front-end loads 332                               193
          future value 427                        front running 114, 117                   investment adviser contracts 217
          liquidity 449                           fundamental analysis 283                 investment adviser representative 50, 68,
          opportunity cost 450                    future value 427                                  156, 184
          present value 427                                                                  termination procedures 70
          random walk, theory 508                 G                                        Investment Advisers Act of 1940 155
        Economic Growth and Tax Relief Recon-                                              investment advisory contracts 115
                 ciliation Act of 2001 (EGTRRA)   GDP 409
                                                                                           investment advisory fees 122
                 576                              general accounts 359
                                                                                           Investment Company Act of 1940 323
        economic indicators 415                   general obligation bond 296
                                                                                           investment company securities 323
        Education IRA 487, 614                    gift tax 536
                                                                                           investment constraints 485
        efficient market hypothesis 508           gift tax exclusion 536
                                                                                           investment contract 5
        emerging markets 281                      GO bond 296
                                                                                           investment counsel 178
        Employee Retirement Income Security       good til canceled order (GTC) 552
                                                                                           investment discretion 22
                 Act of 1974 595                  government securities 21
                                                                                           investment grade 298
          fiduciary responsibility 595            grantor 470
                                                                                           investment policy statement 485, 599
          investment policy statement 599         gross domestic product (GDP) 409, 415
                                                                                           investment style
        EPS 422                                   growth style of investing 500
                                                                                             growth 500
        equity REITs 337                          guaranteed 51
                                                                                             value 501
        equity security 20                                                                 IPO 5, 83
        ERISA                                     H
                                                                                           IRA investments 582
          Section 404 598                         hedge funds 389                          IRAs 575
        escrow 101                                held in street name 543                  IRR 430




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 692                                                                                                             7/15/2016 2:03:42 PM
                                                                                                                                   Index       693



                   irrevocable life insurance trust 523       microeconomics 409                        options 373
                   issuer 6, 50, 82                           mid cap stock 501, 568                      contracts 374
                   issuer transaction 82                      minimum guaranteed death benefit 363        hedging 379
                   issue subpoenas 131                        ministerial personnel 62                    straddles 378
                                                              mixed margin 545                          order ticket 27, 105
                   J                                          mode 431                                  OTC 548
                                                              modern portfolio theory 504
                   JOBS Act 14                                                                          P
                                                              money market funds 330
                   joint account
                                                              money market securities 315
                     agreement 464                                                                      Paper Act 5
                                                              Monte Carlo simulations techniques 677
                   joint tenants with right of survivorship                                             par value 279
                                                              mortality guarantee 352
                           (JTWROS) 464                                                                 passive income 581
                                                              mortality risk fee 364
                   judicial review of orders 143                                                        passive investor 26
                                                              mortgage REITs 337
                                                                                                        passive portfolio style 499
                                                              moving average 285
                   K                                                                                    payroll deduction plans 613
                                                              municipal bonds 291
                                                                                                        peak 409
                   Keogh plan                                 municipal securities 20, 296
                                                                                                        penalties for early withdrawal from retire-
                    eligibility 590                           mutual fund 325
                                                                                                                 ment plans 590
                    non-tax-deductible contributions 589       advantages 335
                                                                                                        performance fees 219
                                                              N                                         periodic payment deferred annuity 350
                   L
                                                                                                        person 49, 155
                   large cap stock 501, 568                   National Conference of Commissioners      policy loan 359
                   last in 355                                        on Uniform State Laws (NC-        POP 324
                   legend securities 16                               CUSL) 47                          portfolio income 518
                   legislative risk 448                       National Securities Markets Improve-      portfolio insurance 379
                   lending to clients 120                             ment Act of 1996 155              portfolio management
                   letter of rescission 140                   net asset value (NAV) 324                   active and passive 499
                   letter securities 16                       net present value 429                     positive yield curve 413
                   liabilities                                net worth 417                             power of attorney 110, 476
                     current 417                              net worth requirements 65                 preemptive rights 282
                     long-term 418                            nominal rate of interest 413              preferred 275
                   LIFO 355                                   nonaffiliate 17                           preferred stock 278
                   limited liability 276, 390                 nondiversified 32                           features of 279
                   limited partnership (LP) 390               nonexempt 90                              premium (above par) 303
                   limited power of attorney 23               nonexempt security 82                     present value 428
                   limited trading authorization 476          nonissuer 50                              price-to-earning (P/E) ratio 669
                   limit order 553                            nonissuer transaction 83                  price to earnings multiple 568
                   liquidity risk 449                         nonqualified corporate retirement plans   primary market 547
                   loan                                               612                               primary offering 83
                     consent (margin) 543                      types 612                                priority claims 275
                   longevity risk 357                         nonqualified deferred compensation plan   private placement
                   low-load 332                                       613                                 under federal law 13
                                                              normal, yield curve 413                   probable returns 565
                   M                                          North American Securities Administra-     profit-sharing plan 603
                                                                      tors Association (NASAA) 47       progressive tax 517
                   macroeconomics 409                         notice filing 170                         prohibited practices 223
                   maintenance of investment adviser          NPV 429                                   prohibited transactions under ERISA
                          records 193                         NSMIA 155                                          599
                   management investment company 323          NYSE 548                                  property dividends 275
                   margin                                                                               prospectus 5, 6, 10, 12
                    account 543                               O                                         prudent investor rule 595
                   margin agreement 543                                                                 publicly traded fund 324
                   margin on new issues 26                    odd-lot theorists 286
                                                                                                        public offering price (POP) 324
                   market basket 411                          odd-lot trading 286
                   market capitalization 501                  offer 6, 51                               Q
                   market maker 19                               to sell 125
                   market order 551, 552                      omitting prospectus 12                    qualified corporate retirement plans 595
                   matched orders (purchases) 27, 114         open-end 32, 323                          qualified custodian 203
                   material 103                               operating expense guarantee 353           quote 551
                   mean 431, 432                              opportunity cost 450
                   median 431                                 optimal portfolio 505




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 693                                                                                                                 7/15/2016 2:03:43 PM
        694        Index



        R                                          S                                               statistical concepts
                                                                                                     correlation coefficient 438
        random walk theory 508                     safe harbor                                       Monte Carlo simulation 507
        ratings 298                                  401(k) plan 600                                 standard deviation 437
        real estate investment trust (REIT) 337      ERISA Section 404(c) 596                      statutory disqualification 21
        realized gain 276                            Section 28(e) soft dollars 225                stock 20
        realized losses 527                        sale 6, 51, 125                                   benefits of owning 275
        real rate of interest 413                  sales of securities at financial institutions     preferred 275
        real return 563                                     143                                    stock dividends 275
        recession 409, 415                         scalping 189                                    stock exchange 20
        redeemable security 324                    Schedule 13D 25                                 stop order 10, 48, 132, 553
        red herring prospectus 10                  scheduled-premium 363                           strategic asset allocation 497
        registered by coordination 87              Schedule G 26                                   street name 543
        registered by qualification 88             SEC disclaimer 13                               subsequent public offering 5, 83
        registered representatives 62              secondary market 547                            summarily 48, 135
        registrant 52, 100                         secondary transactions 83                       summary order 48
        registration of Securities under the USA   SEC Release IA-1092 157                         surety bonds 60
           by coordination 87                      SEC Rule 501 14
           by qualification 88                     SEC Rule 506 14                                 T
        registration requirements                  Section 13(f) filings 25
           federal 18                              Section 16 filings 26                           tactical asset allocation 498
           for securities and exchange 18          Section 457(b) plan 606                         taxation 603, 612
           prospectus 5                            Section 529 Plans 487, 490, 616                 taxation of foreign securities 537
        regressive tax 517                         Securities Act of 1933 5, 323                   tax-exempt 501(c)3 592
        Regulation D 14                            Securities and Exchange Commission              Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997 577
        regulatory risk 448                                 (SEC) 155                              tax-sheltered annuities 591
        required minimum distributions 520,          creation of 18                                technical analysis 284
                 579, 609                          Securities Exchange Act of 1934 17              technical analysts 283
        residual rights 277                        securities information processor (SIP) 19       tenants in common (TIC) 464
        restricted securities 16                   security 5, 51                                  testimonials 213, 223, 653
        revenue bond 297                             as defined under the USA 80                   time horizon 490
        rights                                     self-regulatory organization (SRO) 17,          time value of money 427
           of accumulation 328                              20, 52                                 tippee 28
           of rescission 140                       sell 51, 125                                    tipper 28
           of succession 464                       selling away 121                                TIPS 292
           preemptive 282                          selling dividends 119                           TOD 465
           voting 276                              senior securities 277                           tombstone 6
        risk                                       SEOs 5                                          top-heavy 401(k) 605
           liquidity 449                           separate account 348                            total returns from investment 562
           market 277                              SEP IRA 579                                     trading authorization 23, 110
           Monte Carlo simulation, as analytical   SEPs 579                                        traditional IRAs 575
                 tools 507                         settlement option 351                           trails 34
           nonsystematic 445, 446                  settlor 470                                     transfer agent 19
           of owning stock 277                     shareholders’ equity 418                        transfer on death account 465
           regulatory 448                          share identification 526                        Treasury bill 291
           Sharpe ratio 566                        Sharpe ratio 566                                Treasury bond 292
        risk adjusted return 563                   short interest 286                              Treasury Inflation Protection Securities
        risk-free rate 683                         similar security 20                                      292
        rollovers 584                              simplified employee pensions 579                Treasury note 291
        Roth IRA 490, 577, 578                     single-premium deferred annuity 350             treble damages 28
        Rule 12b-1 119                             small cap stock 501, 568                        trigger 553
        Rule 72t 580, 609                          soft-dollar compensation 226                    trough 409
        Rule 147 8                                 solicitor 52, 221                               trust accounts 475
        Rule 482 12                                S&P 400 568                                     trustee 475
        Rule 506(b) 85                             S&P 500 568, 569                                trusts 470
        rule of 72 429                             special situation stocks 411                      complex 471
        Russell 2000 568                           splitting commissions 122                         irrevocable 473
                                                   SPO 5, 83                                         living 472
                                                   standard deviation 437                            revocable 472
                                                   state 53                                          simple 471
                                                                                                     testamentary 472
                                                                                                   Truth in Securities Act 5




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 694                                                                                                                    7/15/2016 2:03:43 PM
                                                                                                                                Index      695




                   U                                              V                                Y
                   UGMA 621, 622                                  value style of investing 501     yield curve 412, 413
                   underwriter 6                                  variable annuity 348                inverted 414
                   Uniform Net Capital Rule 30                    variable life insurance 362      yield to maturity 303
                   Uniform Prudent Investor Act of 1994           VLI contract 363                   as a function of IRR 430
                           596                                    VUL 363
                   Uniform Securities Act (USA)                                                    Z
                    sale or sell and offer or offer to sell 104   W
                                                                                                   zero-coupon bonds 309
                   Uniform Transfers to Minors Act
                                                                  waivers 118
                           (UTMA) 621
                                                                  warrant 282
                   universal variable life insurance 363
                                                                  wash sale 526
                   unrealized gain 276
                                                                  wash trades 27, 114
                   unsystematic risk 504, 664
                                                                  whole life insurance 359
                   UVL 363
                                                                  withdrawal of registration 137
                                                                  WLI 359
                                                                  wrap fee program 196




Series_66_10e_LEM.indb 695                                                                                                          7/15/2016 2:03:43 PM
Notes
Notes
Notes
Notes
Notes
Notes
Notes
Notes
Notes
Notes
Notes
