                   1.2     Session 2       State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA) 45
                                      Session 2 State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)
                                         Even though registration under the Uniform Securities Act (the law that deals with
                                    state securities law under the Uniform Securities Act (described in Session 2), and, for
                                   covering the Uniform Securities Act in the next session.
                                   under the Uniform Securities Act and will probably have to register with the state:
                             Uniform Securities Act is greater than that in federal law.
                                 these terms are also used in the Uniform Securities Act, which is model legislation that
                                 1933 and in the Uniform Securities Act, which will be discussed in Session 2.
                                 (sometimes referred to under state securities laws as “Federal Covered Adviser”). Relevant
                                 state securities laws as “Federal Covered Security”). State securities registration require-
                            Act (USA)
                                    he Uniform Securities Act (USA) is model legislation that arose in
                                    an effort to unify numerous state securities laws, known as blue-sky
                                    laws. Under the USA, the state Administrator has jurisdiction over
                                The USA provides both civil liabilities and criminal penalties for violat-
                            court costs, and losses resulting from securities sold in violation of the USA.
                            ■■ identify instruments that are defined under the USA as securities;
                            ■■ identify securities that are defined as exempt under the USA;
                            ■■ understand the antifraud provisions of the USA;
                               provisions of the USA;
                               in violation of the USA; and
                                                                       Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)        47
                   2. 1       DEFINITIONS UNDER THE UNIFORM SECURITIES ACT
                   2. 1. 1       THE UNIFORM SECURITIES ACT OF 1956 (USA)
                        2. 1. 1. 1   The USA is Model State Securities Legislation
                                      With the enactment of numerous state securities laws, commonly referred to as blue-
                                 Securities Act (USA) as model legislation for the separate states to adopt. As model leg-
                                 islation, the USA is not actual legislation; the USA is a template or guide that each state
                                 uses in drafting its securities legislation. The securities laws of most states follow the USA
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT                The exam will test your knowledge of the Uniform Securities Act, not the
                                                 specifics of your state’s securities legislation. The USA is periodically updated to
                                                 Rules. You will be tested on the 1956 version of the USA used by the North
                                                 exam requires that you not only know what the USA says, but also are able to
                                 There are three specific cases where this power applies in the USA:
                                       A final order is one that ends litigation (usually). Under the Uniform Securities Act,
                                      The common term used to refer to state securities laws.
                                                                    Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)        49
                                 know that under the USA, with respect to certificates of interest or participation in oil,
                                                                  Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)        51
                            under the USA, it does not have to be registered in order to be sold, and there are no
                                Under the USA, an exempt transaction is one in which the nature of the sale is such
                                     Because it is a federal term, not one found in the Uniform Securities Act, on this
                                                                   Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)        53
                              the USA, if a person is excluded from the definition of an agent, that person is not subject
                              securities transactions is not, by definition, an agent for purposes of the USA. How is this
                                  Exemption in the USA means not being subject to a registration provision of the act
                                                    ____      3.	Under the Uniform Securities Act, the city of Atlanta would be
                                                                  $750,000. Under the Uniform Securities Act, the plan would be
                                                         USA in each state?
                                 of state securities laws:
                                                                          Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)        55
                                         A broker-dealer is defined in the USA as any person (think back to the broad defi-
                                 sions of state securities law—the USA—that relate to broker-dealers.
                                     In other words, the USA excludes broker-dealers with no place of business in the state
                                     The USA also allows broker-dealers to do business with existing customers who are
                                                                           Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)        57
                                                     Under the USA, you are a broker-
                                                                                                  Under the USA, you are not a broker-
                                                    a cease and desist order against First Securities. Under the USA, First Securities is
                                                                             Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)        59
                                         Under the USA, if a person is included in the definition of a broker-dealer, that per-
                                    son must register as a broker-dealer in the states where it does business. The USA is clear
                                                     USA specifically excludes from the definition of broker-dealer out-of-state broker-
                                                    does not meet the definition as stated in the USA and, therefore, is not subject to
                                                                         Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)        61
                                                  ____     2.	Under the Uniform Securities Act, an out-of-state firm that transacts
                                                  ____     3.	A person not defined as a broker-dealer in the state under the USA
                                                  5.   Under the Uniform Securities Act, a broker-dealer is defined as any person
                                      The USA defines an agent as any individual who represents a broker-dealer (legal
                                                                      Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)        63
                                 to the investment bankers), the company (known under the USA as the issuer) either
                                     The USA states, “It is unlawful for any person to transact business in this state as an
                                                                        Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)        65
                            CASE STUDY            Agent as Defined by the USA
                                                  as defined in the USA because she is representing the issuer in the sale of an
                                                                      Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)        67
                                               1.   Under the Uniform Securities Act, the term agent would include an individual
                                               2.   Under the Uniform Securities Act, the term agent would include
                                               8.   Under the Uniform Securities Act, an individual licensed as an agent by the
                                   Under the USA, an investment adviser is defined as any person who, for compensa-
                                 estate, is not investment advice covered by the USA or other securities legislation. As a
                                                                         Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)        69
                                                                            Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)        71
                                                    4.   According to the Uniform Securities Act, a consent to service of process must
                                                                       Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)        73
                                 Series 65’s focus will be on usage of social media by securities professionals. As has been
                                                                       Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)        75
                                                                 Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)        77
                            exempt from the registration and advertising filing requirements under the USA), the
                                                                       Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)        79
                                      Perhaps the most important term in the USA is the term security. Why is it so impor-
                                 tant? The reason is simple: the USA applies only to those financial instruments that are
                                     The USA does not define the term but provides a comprehensive list of financial
                                 the USA, securities include:
                                                                        Session 2   State Regulation Under the Uniform Securities Act (USA)        81
                                 securities, their sale is not regulated by state securities law. Furthermore, if a registered
                                 any state securities law. He has violated the antifraud provisions of another act prohibit-
                                 by the USA. Exempt means not subject to registration. Therefore, unless the nonexempt
                                 security is a prohibited practice under the USA and may subject an agent to civil and pos-
