                                                   Representatives, and Federal Covered Advisers
                                                         I.   a government entity issuing exempt securities.
                                 SEC and, as we will learn in the next session, are considered federal covered securities
                                     any class of equity security (other than exempt securities) registered on a national
                                 (sometimes referred to under state securities laws as “Federal Covered Adviser”). Relevant
                                 state securities laws as “Federal Covered Security”). State securities registration require-
                                 ments were preempted with respect to federal covered securities.
                            ■■ describe the requirements for exemption from registration for private placements;
                                 tered investment adviser or federal covered investment adviser performing duties related
                   2. 2. 2    EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION UNDER THE ACT
                              eral law, such as in the case of a federal covered adviser.
                                                           Analysis: First Securities Corporation sells both exempt securities (municipal
                                                     bonds) and nonexempt securities (equities) to the general public and to other
                                 ■■ in certain exempt securities (listed below);
                                 2. 3. 2. 2. 1 Effecting Transactions in Exempt Securities
                                     Securities exempt from registration are called exempt securities. Although there are
                                 lowing five exempt securities:
                                     Exempt securities and exempt transactions will be covered in thorough detail later in
                                                        Analysis: The City of Chicago is an issuer of exempt securities (municipal
                                 tered investment adviser or federal covered investment adviser performing duties related
                                 or is a federal covered security.
                                                    3.   Nonexempt securities
                                 from registration under the Act, or (3) it is a federal covered security. If the security or
                                 transaction is not exempt or is not a federal covered security as defined by the National
                                 creating the category of registration known as a federal covered adviser. We’ll have more
                                      Of importance to this session, the NSMIA also created the term federal covered secu-
                                 tration requirements were preempted with respect to federal covered securities. However,
                   2. 6. 2          CATEGORIES OF FEDERAL COVERED SECURITIES
                                        preferred stock) is also considered federal covered]; and
                                        that security is not considered a federal covered security.
                                    are federal covered securities exempt from registration requirements in the states, but
                                    securities were federal covered, the state could not do so. However, because municipal
                                    securities of other states are federal covered securities, the state cannot overrule federal
                             EXAMPLE                    A bond issued by the city of Columbus, OH, is a federal covered security
                                                    matically make it federal covered. Yes, that is true of investment companies and
                                                    Link, formerly known as the Pink Sheets, and they are not federal covered. Fur-
                                                    in the definition of federal covered security. For example, U.S. government and
                                                    municipal securities are federal covered securities and are exempt from registra-
                                                         Although investment company securities are federal covered securities, the
                                 state, plus a special method for certain federal covered securities. They are:
                                 (NSMIA) designated certain securities as federal covered and, therefore, removed from
                                 requiring registration for federal covered securities, status as a federal covered security is
                                 filings with respect to federal covered securities, generally investment companies regis-
                                 tain federal covered securities to file the following documents as a condition for sale of
                                                   Keep in mind the distinction between federal covered securities and SEC-
                                              regis­tered securities. Under the NSMIA, federal covered securities are a narrowly
                                                   Before the initial offer of any federal covered security in this state, the Ad-
                                              prevent the sale of a federal covered security in his state.
                                                  Even though an issuer of a federal covered security (think about a Fortune
                                   The most common form of registration for those securities that are not federal covered
                                                              Investment Company Act of 1940 are federal covered securities and are
                                     The USA provides for a number of categories of exempt securities and even more
                                 unless sold in exempt transactions. Federal covered securities do not register with the
                                    pend, or revoke any securities transaction exemption other than that of a federal covered
                                    ■■ it is a federal covered security.
                   2. 8. 1          EXEMPT SECURITIES
                                    erature. Exempt securities include the following.
                                 ■■ Federal covered securities. These include any security of that issuer equal to or senior
                                                 ■■ Federal covered securities (those listed on exchanges or Nasdaq and
                                             Nasdaq and, as federal covered securities, are exempt from registration with the
                                        Please note that a few pages ago, we gave you a list of 10 different exempt securities,
                                 other hand, with the exception of those involving federal covered securities qualifying
                                 ited a transaction with an insurance company of a security that was not federal covered,
                                                    while all exempt transactions, other than in certain federal covered securities,
                                      it is a federal covered security.
                                 bonds are exempt securities, both ABC and the selling agents must register in that state.
                                                    7.   Under the USA, all of the following are exempt securities EXCEPT
                                                     the person or transaction is registered, exempt, or federal covered. Prevention
                                                         III. Soliciting orders for unregistered, nonexempt securities
                              If no commission is paid, registration is not                        states, a federal covered adviser may also be
                       U-4. Federal covered investment advisers are                  business in the state. Securities issued by a
        Quick Quiz 2.G                                                               federal covered security is itself considered
                                                                                     federal covered and, therefore, exempt from
                       However, in virtually all cases, qualification                  sales literature. Exempt securities are never
           4. B.       Although these are federal covered securities                   private, nonpublicly advertised transaction
                       are included in our list of exempt securities.                  transactions.
                              adhere to the registration and advertising                        nonexempt securities.
                             ■■ define federal covered investment adviser and list exemptions and exclusions under the
                                Investment Advisers, Investment Adviser Representatives, and Federal Covered Advisers.
                                 Investment Advisers Act of 1940, (federal covered advisers), do not register with state
