                                                        II.   a corporation issuing securities in an exempt transaction.
                               ■■ transactions by an issuer that do not involve a public offering (private placement
                                  under Regulation D).
             1. 5           SEC REGULATION D (PRIVATE PLACEMENT
                                 the SEC adopted Regulation D, the private placement exempt transaction. Securities
                                 offered and sold in compliance with Regulation D are exempt from registration with the
                                 506, a private placement where there is no dollar limit on the amount sold.
                                 tant changes to Rule 506 of Regulation D. These changes became effective September 23,
                                 raise capital through a private placement under Rule 506(b) can sell the offering to an
                                      SEC Rule 501 classifies an accredited investor for the purposes of Regulation D into
                                      The separate categories of accredited investors under Regulation D include:
                                        The term accredited investor applies only to private placements. The dollar amount of
                                                            poses of acquiring a private placement your firm is selling.
                                                            35‑investor limitation found in Rule 506(b) of Regulation D.
                                     What is Form D, and when does it have to be filed? Under Rule 503 of Regulation D,
                                 an issuer that is issuing securities in reliance on Regulation D must file Form D with
                              limitation placed on private placements                        been required to register with the SEC.
                            ■■ define exempt transactions and provide examples;
                            ■■ describe the requirements for exemption from registration for private placements;
                   2. 1. 13 EXEMPT TRANSACTION
                                Under the USA, an exempt transaction is one in which the nature of the sale is such
                                 purchasing a private placement under Regulation D of that Act.
                                 2. 3. 2. 2. 2 Effecting Exempt Transactions
                                 actions. Transactions exempt from registration are called exempt transactions. Some
                                 ■■ private placements.
                                     Exempt securities and exempt transactions will be covered in thorough detail later in
                                                    who represents an issuer in effecting non-exempt transactions in
                                                    A. an individual who represents an issuer in an exempt transaction
                                 transaction (an unsolicited transaction, which we know is an exempt transaction—
                                 security is registered, it may not be sold in a state unless it is sold in an exempt transaction
                                                         C.   need not be registered if sold in an exempt transaction
                                                         D.   need not be registered if sold in a nonexempt transaction
                                        D under the Securities Act of 1933 (qualifying under the private placement transac-
                                 trading. However, justification as an exempt transaction must be established before each
                                 categories of exempt transactions. Those securities that are nonexempt must register
                                 unless sold in exempt transactions. Federal covered securities do not register with the
                                         An exempt transaction is exempt from the regulatory control of the state Administrator
                                    Because the sale of securities to certain financial institutions is an exempt transaction (as
                                    the securities sold in exempt transactions do not have to be registered in the state. If such
                                    securities were not sold in exempt transactions, such as to an individual investor, they
                   2. 8. 2   EXEMPT TRANSACTIONS
                             istration, or traded in an exempt transaction. This section covers exemptions for transac-
                                  There are many different types of exempt transactions. We begin by focusing on those
                                  ent, not the agent. This is probably the most common of the exempt transactions.
                             ■■ Limited offering transactions. These include any offering, called a private placement,
                                  Unlike federal law, where the private placement rule restricts the number of purchas-
                                 private placement exemption above). Hence, there may be a publicly advertised offering
                                      was not for the purpose of evading the act, is an exempt transaction. For example, you
                                      exempt transaction.
                                 ■■ The following are examples of exempt transactions that are unlikely to be on your
                                                    while an exempt transaction is a verb (hence the word “action”).
                                                    tor standards of Regulation D. Rule 501 of Regulation D considers an individual
                                 deny any exempt transaction. That means that, for example, just because an agent solic-
                                                    while all exempt transactions, other than in certain federal covered securities,
                                      The same applies to exempt transactions. One of the most common cases is when a
                                   it is an exempt transaction and, therefore, the trade may be made even though the security
                            QUICK QUIZ 2.I         Indicate an exempt transaction with Y and a nonexempt transaction with N.
                                                   5.   Which of the following are exempt transactions?
                                                   6.   All of the following describe exempt transactions EXCEPT
                                                                                       exempt transaction, the individual is not an
                                                                                                   in an exempt transaction, registration is not
                       could, at the discretion of the Administrator,                  12 months is an exempt transaction under
                                                                                       public offering is not an exempt transaction.
                       depends on the securities in a segregated               5. C.    Choice III is not an exempt transaction
                       fund) are nonexempt, which means they                           because the private placement exemption
                            nonexempt transaction—it is a sale of a                             client was a nondiscretionary client, the
                            institutions. Exempt transactions are most
                              are exempt transactions, not exempt
                              securities, not exempt transactions.                              of a security.
                              an exempt transaction. Neither exempt
                              securities nor exempt transactions must                9. U.      It is unlawful to solicit unregistered
                                    that would disqualify an issuer under Rule 506(d)(1) of SEC Regulation D, (the “bad
                        B. a Regulation D offering                                  dent in those states
                                                                                     exempt transaction
                Regulation D is the private placement
                   in the state and its only clients were                           common of the exempt transactions. Any
                                                                                    client, it is not an exempt transaction.
                                an exempt transaction. The fact that the                are exempt from registration. But only
                                change the fact that this is a sale to an               individuals (called a private placement)
                                retail client is not an exempt transaction.             issuer of the securities receives the proceeds
