                                 either individually or in some fiduciary capacity, but not as part of a regular business, are
                                     in the best interest of the client. You may be asked a question where a spouse of a client
                                                        The public’s best interest is not reason enough for the denial, suspension, or
                             ■■ list the important ethical considerations and fiduciary responsibilities in providing invest-
                        3. 1. 1. 3   Fiduciary
                                     A fiduciary is a person legally appointed and authorized to hold assets in trust for
                                 another person. The fiduciary manages the assets for the benefit of the other person
                                                    B.    a fiduciary
                                 ■■ Disclosure Obligations as a Fiduciary. Under federal and state law, IAs act in a fiduciary
                                    the advisory relationship. As a fiduciary, they also must seek to avoid conflicts of inter-
             3. 12           FIDUCIARY RESPONSIBILITIES OF INVESTMENT
                                 ents and must deal fairly and honestly with them. This fiduciary relationship between an
                                      Both state and federal law reflect a recognition of the delicate fiduciary nature of an
                               the implied fiduciary responsibilities inherent in the client/adviser relationship. One of
                                 adviser’s fiduciary obligations to its clients; but, it is highly unlikely that one of these
                                                         C.   violation of an investment adviser’s fiduciary responsibility
                                                            ment adviser’s fiduciary responsibility.
                              traditional fiduciary principles, a fiduciary cannot use assets entrusted by clients to benefit
                              account will not be deemed to have acted unlawfully or to have breached a fiduciary duty
                              law to act in the best interests of its client. This duty generally precludes the adviser from
                               disclose the practice and, as a fiduciary, take steps to insure that the charges for the services
                                 consider their fiduciary and regulatory obligations under the Advisers Act and to formalize
                             Advisers have a fiduciary duty to act in the best interest of their clients, and it is in the
                             best interest of clients for advisers to adopt a Succession Plan with procedures to ensure
                      3. C.   Publishers of general circulation newspapers                        an IA. Yes, an IA does act in a fiduciary
                      7. C.   Under the NASAA Model Custody Rule,                                 fiduciary obligations to its clients. Limiting
                              business days of receipt is considered to be                        good faith. Fiduciary responsibility cannot be
            B. fiduciary                                                     55. Which of the following would be deemed to be an
                          mailed from another state while the client                 relationship to be a fiduciary one.
                             Fiduciary or custodial accounts may be opened for minors or legally incom-
                                     of the IPS by those with fiduciary responsibility over qualified retirement plans.
                                 on behalf of the account is acting in a fiduciary capacity, whether it be the trustee of the
                                      A trustee is a fiduciary and is obliged to perform in the interest of the beneficiaries.
                                  An estate account is an account that, like a trust account, is directed by fiduciary on
                                      tion to the normal fiduciary responsibility assumed by all investment advisers, there
                   14. 5         FIDUCIARY ACCOUNTS
                                         In a fiduciary account, the individual granted fiduciary responsibility enters trades for
                                     must manage the account in the owner’s best interests.
                              EXAMPLE                     The most familiar fiduciary account is a trust account, in which money or se-
                                                     or trustee, is a fiduciary.
                                         A fiduciary is anyone legally appointed and authorized to represent another person,
                                     that person’s account. A fiduciary cannot use account contents for personal benefit but
                                                         Any trades the fiduciary enters must be consistent with the trust’s investment
             14. 5. 1 OPENING A FIDUCIARY ACCOUNT
                                     Opening a fiduciary account may require a court certification of the individual’s
                                 detailing the limitations placed on the fiduciary. No documentation of custodial rights
                                                    C. Fiduciary
                               fiduciary accounts described above. In the case of foundations, because those are usually
                                mary features including the fiduciary obligations under the Uniform Prudent Investor Act;
                              appointed for each plan and has a fiduciary responsibility for the plan and the beneficial
                                 assets. The plan’s trustees have a fiduciary responsibility to invest prudently and man-
                                 age funds in a way that represents the best interests of all participants.
                   20. 4. 1. 1 Fiduciary Responsibility Under ERISA
                                 time for ERISA to address fiduciary responsibilities of plan trustees, there was a long his-
                                 ■■ The trade-off in all investments between risk and return is identified as the fiduciary’s
                                      Under Section 404 of ERISA, every person who acts as a fiduciary for an employee
                                 fications. Under ERISA, trustees cannot delegate fiduciary duties, but they can delegate
                                                    sions, trustees cannot delegate certain fiduciary duties, such as determining the
                                    Fiduciary responsibilities to the plan are explicit. With respect to the plan, fiduciaries
                                     Under ERISA provisions, the fiduciary must be as prudent as the average expert, not
                                 the average person. To act with care, skill, prudence, and caution, the fiduciary must also:
                                                    a fiduciary.
                                                    tor in security selection. That is, when the fiduciary is deciding what security will
                                which serves as a guideline for the plan’s fiduciary regarding funding and investment man-
                                funds), the fiduciary must ensure that the investment alternatives available to plan mem-
                        20. 4. 1. 3 Prohibited Transactions by the Plan Fiduciary
                                fiduciary is strictly prohibited from any conflicts of interest, such as:
                                      Several times, we have mentioned the requirement for the plan fiduciary to diversify
                                 are met. Under ERISA Section 404(c), a fiduciary is not liable for losses to the plan result-
                                                         The trustee of a 401(k) would be able to reduce his ERISA fiduciary exposure
                                    —— even though the employees maintain investment control, the plan fiduciary is not
                                                         A.   A person in a fiduciary capacity who invests in a prudent manner
                   20. 8. 2. 1 Fiduciary Responsibility
                                     An UGMA/UTMA custodian assumes fiduciary responsibilities in managing a minor’s
                      3. B.   Although all of these may have a fiduciary
        41. It would be correct to state that                                45. Under ERISA, a fiduciary must act in all of the
                       B. bank CDs                                                 A. A fiduciary sells a real estate investment to the
                       D. growth-oriented securities                               B. A fiduciary participates in a transaction on
                       A. A wealthy individual withdraws $10,000                   C. A fiduciary offers reduced commissions to
                       B. A single parent withdraws funds from her IRA             D. The fiduciary receives fees for acting as a
