                            prospectus in the question, you know the question is about a new issue. Sometimes a question
                              Securities Act of 1933;
                   1. 1          THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
                                         The Securities Act of 1933 (also called the Paper Act, the Truth in Securities Act,
                                    and the Prospectus Act) regulates the issuing of corporate securities sold to the pub-
                                    (SEC) in a registration statement and published in a prospectus. In addition, the act
                                        Definitions under the Securities Act of 1933 are similar to those you will see under
                                    tions under the Securities Act of 1933 are those that follow.
                   1. 1. 1. 5          Prospectus
                                       A prospectus is any notice, circular, letter, or communication, written or broadcast
                                   writers) is not considered a prospectus nor an offering of the subject security. The term
                                   prospectus does not include oral communications.
                           QUICK QUIZ 1.A         1.   The term issuer, as defined in the Securities Act of 1933, would include:
                                                  2.   Under the Securities Act of 1933, which of the following is NOT a security?
                                  tration statement and prospectus.
                                  mation is fully disclosed in the registration statement and prospectus by requiring that:
                                  ■■ the issuer file a registration statement with the SEC before securities are offered or sold
                                  ■■ a prospectus that meets the requirements of the act be provided to prospective buyers;
                                      The Securities Act of 1933 makes it unlawful to sell or deliver a secu­rity through any
                                  instrument of interstate commerce unless a registration statement is in effect. However,
                                                    to comply with the Securities Act of 1933. It is important to remember that any
                                  The Securities Act of 1933 protects investors who buy new issues by:
                   1. 4. 1     THE REGISTRATION STATEMENT
                                    An issuer must file a registration statement with the SEC disclosing material informa-
                               tion about the issue. The registration statement must be signed by the principal executive
                               mis­statements of material facts. The information required in the registration statement
                                     After the issuer files a registration statement with the SEC, a 20-day cooling-off period
                                 20 days; the SEC usually takes longer to clear registration statements.
                                         registration statement,          during the cooling-off       but the firm must use a
                                         no sales can be solicited        period, but indications of   final prospectus.
                                         and no prospectus can            interest can be solicited
             1. 4. 3             PRELIMINARY (RED HERRING) PROSPECTUS
                                     The preliminary prospectus must be made available to any prospective purchaser who
                                 ■■ in place of a registration statement; or
                                    preceded by a preliminary prospectus, including a price range where required by rule, may
                                        can be received until the registration statement has become effective, and any such
                                       The term red herring was given to the preliminary prospectus because the front page
                                            A Registration Statement relating to these securities has been filed with the
                                    prospectus under any circumstances. They cannot write short summaries or reviews on the
                                    preliminary prospectus. The preliminary prospectus must be given to customers without
                                                          Two items missing from the preliminary prospectus (red herring) are the pub-
                                                        ■■ distribute preliminary prospectuses; or
             1. 4. 4             THE FINAL (EFFECTIVE) PROSPECTUS
                                      A registration statement is normally a very long and complex document for an inves-
                                 tor to read. The act requires the preparation of a shorter document called a prospectus.
                                 The prospectus summarizes the infor­mation contained in the registration statement. It
                                 must contain all the material facts in the registration statement, but in shorter form. The
                                 of the sale. The purpose of a prospectus is to provide the investor with adequate informa-
                                 read a prospectus, it still must be given to him. It is unlawful for a company to sell securi-
                   1. 4. 4. 1         Rule 482 (Omitting) Prospectus
                                 as an omitting prospectus. The rule is SEC Rule 482, which describes mutual fund adver-
                                 tisements. To comply with this rule, an omitting prospectus must meet the following
                                     prospectus.
                                 ■■ The advertisement must state conspicuously from whom a prospectus may be obtained.
                                 ■■ The advertisement must urge investors to read the prospectus carefully before invest-
                                     via an application found in the prospectus.
             1. 4. 5             EFFECTIVE DATE OF REGISTRATION STATEMENT
                                     On the date a registration statement becomes effective, securities may be sold to the
                                     A copy of the final (effective) prospectus must be delivered to each pur­chaser. This is
                                 normally accomplished by including the prospectus along with a confirmation of the trade,
                                 spectus. Just as with a preliminary prospectus, no markings of any kind may be placed on
                                 the prospectus. No areas of special interest may be highlighted or have attention drawn to
                                     Every prospectus always has the following statement in bold print on the front page.
                                      PROSPECTUS. ANY REPRESENTATION TO THE CONTRARY IS A CRIMI-
                   1. 4. 6   LIABILITIES UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
                                 The Securities Act of 1933 provides penalties for false and mislead­ing statements con-
                             tained in the registration statement or prospectus. If misrepresentations were intentionally
                             codes allow a purchaser of a security under a registration statement containing a false
                             to believe, after investigation, that the statements contained in the registration statement
                                 made without having to file a com­plete registration statement with the SEC. The time and
                                 the Securities Act of 1933. This act represents the most important changes in the regula-
                        1. 10. 2. 1 Management Company Prospectus Delivery Requirements
                               rent fund prospectus must be delivered prior to or concurrent with the sale. In the case of
                               a closed-end company, a prospectus is only required on the IPO; all trading subsequent to
                               that is in the secondary market and does not require delivery of a prospectus.
                                                     II. The only time a prospectus is used with the sale of a closed-end com-
                                                         or accompanied by a prospectus.
                               company under the Securities Act of 1933. In addition, they register specifically as invest-
                                 ■■ deviation from any fundamental policy in its registration statement, including a
                                 cally requires that the public offering price, as stated in the prospectus, be upheld for all
