                           Act of 1940, and the Insider Trading and Securities Fraud Enforcement Act
                           ■■ discuss the disclosure requirements, antifraud provisions, and prohibitions against market
                           ■■ recognize the application of the Insider Trading and Securities Fraud Enforcement Act of
                                    prohibits fraudulent activity in connection with the sale, underwriting, and distribution
                               ■■ providing criminal penalties for fraud in the issuance of new securities.
                               mis­statements of material facts. The information required in the registration statement
                                 the 1933 Act have not been met or if fraud is suspected. The SEC may issue a stop order
                                 statement of a material fact. The SEC may subpoena the issuing corporation’s records to
                                 must contain all the material facts in the registration statement, but in shorter form. The
                             tained in the registration statement or prospectus. If misrepresentations were intentionally
                             statement of a material fact or omission of a material fact to sue:
                                 shareholders of the issuer) have been convicted of securities fraud or certain other securi-
                                     The act outlaws the use of any manipulative, deceptive, or other fraudu­lent devices.
             1. 7           INSIDER TRADING AND SECURITIES FRAUD
                                      The Insider Trading and Securities Fraud Enforcement Act of 1988 gave the SEC
                                     In order to avoid misrepresentation or misunderstanding, the SEC stipulates the meth-
                            those who engage in fraudulent activities under the act.
                            ■■ understand the antifraud provisions of the USA;
                            ■■ recognize specific fraudulent activities, unethical practices prohibited practices, and vari-
                   2. 1. 17 FRAUD
                                The term fraud means an intentional effort to deceive some­one for profit; not limited
                                    in the case of fraudulent activity.
                                 they are registered, other than enforcing anti-fraud statutes, the Administrator has relin-
                                    Fraud aimed at groups of people who share similar interests is called affinity fraud.
                                 resulting in hefty fines, potential loss of business, and fraud. A few years ago, a major inter-
                                 national bank lost nearly €4.9 billion in fraudulent trades by a rogue employee that used
                                 agent commits fraud in the sale of any of these items, he has not committed a violation of
                                 any state securities law. He has violated the antifraud provisions of another act prohibit-
                                 ing fraudulent commercial transactions.
                                    violation of anti-fraud provisions), include:
                                 not a preemption of the licensing or anti-fraud laws. Any person that sells a federal cov-
                                 must also comply with the anti-fraud provisions of state laws.
                                              of process signed by the issuer. However, unless there is an appearance of fraud,
                                              mean that the company can make misrepresentations during an offer made in
                                              any state. To do so would violate the antifraud provisions of the USA.
                                 is important in view of the fact that an exempt security is not exempt from the anti-fraud
                                 or fixed annuity is not a security, and is not covered under the anti-fraud statutes of the
                                 sales literature with the Administrator, they are still subject to the antifraud provisions.
                                 Therefore, one cannot be charged with fraudu­lent behavior under the USA in the sale of
                                                          II.   antifraud provisions of state securities laws
             2. 10           ANTIFRAUD PROVISIONS OF THE USA
                                      Fraudulent activity may occur when conducting securities sales or when providing
                                 investment advice. Each of these categories is discussed separately. In general, fraud
                                 anti-fraud provisions. However, these provisions only apply to securities. Therefore, if the
                                 something that is not a security, these anti-fraud provisions do not apply.
             2. 10. 1 FRAUDULENT AND PROHIBITED PRACTICES
                                     Although there is a legal difference between a fraudulent practice and one that is
                                 About the only significant testable concern is that you can go to jail for committing fraud
                                 fraud.
                                     State securities laws modeled on the USA address fraud by making it unlaw­ful for any
                                 ■■ employ any device, scheme, or artifice to defraud;
                                 ■■ make any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary
                                 ■■ engage in any act, practice, or course of business that operates as a fraud or deceit on
                                     ■■ employ any device, scheme, or artifice to defraud the other person; or
                                         fraud or deceit upon the other person.
                                                          As long as it involves a security, there are no exceptions to the antifraud pro-
                                                     of fraud is one of the few areas of securities law over which the states have full
                                         The following is a list of the fraudulent acts most likely to be tested on your exam.
                                     material fact in connection with the purchase or sale of a security. Not all facts are mate-
                                     agents must not deliberately conceal a material fact to encourage a client to buy or sell a
                                     company’s management. Those qualifications would therefore be material fact. To misstate
                                     them is fraud. An example would be claiming that the chief operating officer (COO) of a
                                     and what is not a material fact.
                                          The following are examples of material facts that constitute fraud if misstated by
                                          is obviously an improper action. However, it would not be considered fraud if the inac-
                                          error. To be considered fraud, the action must be deliberate.
                                          the case, is a fraudulent practice. However, it would not be fraud if you were quoting a
                                                    ered fraudulent activity for an agent or IAR to use social media to make a false
                                    basis with a markup or markdown, is fraud.
                                    fraudulent practice. But, what about the agent who attempts to boost her credibility
                                 ■■ Misrepresenting the status of customer accounts—This behavior is fraudulent. Many
                                    making it relatively easy for an unscrupulous agent to fraudulently claim increasing
                                    values in the account when the opposite is true. Doing so would be a fraudulent action.
                                    you agree to do so. Under the USA, you committed fraud.
                                                  occur. Be able to apply the concepts of fraud and unethical behavior to scenarios
                                                  from inventory would include a markup, is a fraudulent act.
                        2. 10. 1. 2 Failure to State Material Facts
                      CASE STUDY                    Failure to State Material Facts
                                                    not ordinarily a material fact, in this case it was because it would have a det-
                                 by means of any manipulative, deceptive, or fraudulent device, practice, plan, program,
