                                    the regulators is, “eligibility does not equal suitability.” Therefore, just because one meets
                                    the financial requirements of an accred­ited investor does not mean that suitability stan-
                                     resources and investment objectives.
                                 the same suitability constraints as any other recommendation? The reply is just what you
                                 nication constitutes a recommendation for purposes of the suitability rule. Because so
                                 steps to fulfill their suitability obligations.
                                 investment objectives, and ability to assume financial risk. What about the client who
                                     The following practices violate the suitability requirements under the USA as well as
                                     tion, needs, or investment objectives;
                                                     able for the investment objectives of his retired clients with fixed incomes and
                                appropriate based on the customer’s investment objectives, financial situation and other
                                is suitable and appropriate based on the customer’s investment objectives, financial situ-
                                  determine suitability.
                                 ■■ Recommending the same security to clients without regard to individual suitability.
                                      among clients and consistency of portfolios with clients’ investment objectives, dis-
                                     adequate safeguards of confidential customer information and records. Not a month goes
                                     permitting employees to access customer information remotely, members must implement
                                     and update appropriate measures to secure customer information. These measures may
                       not possible to determine the suitability                       accounts, provided such discretion is granted
        40. C. Agents must always determine suitability                               SEC trump those of any state.
                                              dealing with client recommendations and suitability, it is necessary to have a solid
                             ■■ explain the use and suitability of these securities in client portfolios.
             7. 1. 3             INVESTMENT OBJECTIVES
                                     The suitability of a mutual fund must also be considered once the above information
             7. 1. 5             SUITABILITY
                                     In determining suitability of mutual funds, the first step is to determine the customer’s
                                     age fund portfolio containing them. Ultimately, as always, suitability becomes an issue
                                                   Investment objectives: varied      Investment objectives: primarily
                                 account. As with other investment company securities, changes in investment objectives
                                      As with so much else, the regulators are concerned about suitability and disclosure.
                              ative to the customer, his financial situation, and his investment objectives. One question
                             to do just that. Some are successful, but many are not. Suitability determina-
                             ■■ assess the special suitability requirements for hedge fund investing;
           1. T.       Because of the more stringent suitability                       but there is no guarantee that the objective
             14. 1. 1 SUITABILITY FOR INDIVIDUAL ACCOUNTS
                                 account. Generally, suitability information is required on all of the tenants in the account.
             14. 2. 5 SUITABILITY FOR JOINT ACCOUNTS
                                      The suitability requirements for a joint account follow the same basic rules as all
                                 other than a collection of individuals, suitability information must be obtained on all of
                                 treated like an individual account. Therefore, the same issues of suitability that apply to
                             Participation Programs (DPPs) discussed in Unit 2. Suitability decisions are similar to a
                             straints of the individual members must be considered from a suitability standpoint.
                             look through the entity to the owners in order to properly meet the suitability standards.
                                 needs and objectives when determining suitability.
             14. 4. 3 SUITABILITY ISSUES
                                                    6.   For which of the following types of clients would the suitability requirements
                                 account owners.                                             suitability requirements would be the high
                                 LLCs have members.                                          suitability standards.
                                       Without suitability information, the account cannot be opened.
                             without suitability information.
                             ■■ distinguish between investment objectives and investment constraints.
                                                    C. largely irrelevant in identifying the individual’s investment objectives
                              investment objectives. Someone with a                     fund (you’ll never have both in the same
                                     Customers who open margin accounts must meet certain minimal suitability require-
                                ■■ investment objectives for the plan;
        26. Which of the following statements is an accurate                 28. As part of its suitability determination, an IA
                                the financial resources, investment objectives, and character of the account.
                 is owned and compiled by Standard & Poor’s Cor-            suitability A determination made by an agent as to
