                            self-regulatory organization and state securities commission specified on your application.
                                         Issuer information must be disclosed to the Securities and Exchange Commission
                                   This term does not include a brokerage firm earning a commission on a retail sale to the
                               ■■ Underwriter’s commissions or discounts
                                        Securities and Exchange Commission but has not yet become effective. Information
                                      BY THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION NOR HAS THE
                                      COMMISSION PASSED UPON THE ACCURACY OR ADEQUACY OF THIS
                                 commissions.
             1. 6. 1             THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                                 other than this job. The terms are stag­gered so that a new commissioner is appointed each
                                 year. To minimize political shenanigans, no more than three of the five commissioners may
                                 sensitive nature of the employment, SEC commissioners may not engage in any personal
                                    mission or a state commission (radio and television stations).
                                 ■■ Fixed-commission rates were abolished in favor of negotiated commissions on public
                                 cally permits no-load funds to pay commissions (sometimes called trails) to broker-dealers
                                 ■■ precisely describes all compensation to be paid;
                                              adviser (IA) is permitted to reduce his fees because of commissions earned on
                                              the sale of mutual funds. Commissions earned on any product, such as mutual
                                              against advisory fees. What the IA cannot do is rebate or reduce commissions on
                                 National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws (NCCUSL), a national
                                 ■■ who, for compensation, engages in the business of advising oth­ers, either directly or
                                 ■■ who, for compensation and as part of a regular business, issues or promulgates analyses
                                     The term solicitor means any individual who, for compensation, acts as an agent of an
                                                    receive a commission on the sales, which they then use to pay their agents who
                                        sonalized investment advice for compensation, as may be, will not be made without
                                 the buyer and seller together. And, like all agents or brokers, they earn a commission.
                                 of commission) or if they acted as a principal (and depending on the circumstances—not
                                 securities. As agents, they act, usually on a commission basis, on behalf of others. Other
                                                    interns. If these interns received any selling related compensation, such as $10 for
                                 the normal investment banking procedure (and paying all of those fees and commissions
                                                    sated for such partici­pation by commissions or other remuneration based either
                                                  charges a commission, although First Securities is remunerated with an underwrit-
                                                             its securities to existing employees for a commission
                                 ■■ receive compensation (actually get paid for the advice).
                                                  securities                         ■■ Compensation is earned in the
                                               ■■ Compensation is earned in             form of fees or other charges,
                                                  the form of commissions and           generally based on the amount
                                 with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), primarily in the case of registered
                                              Commission under the Securities Act of 1933, together with a consent to service
                                    ■■ The underwriters’ discounts and commissions are not changed from the respective
                                                     derwriter’s discounts and commissions are unchanged.
                                 —— no commissions or other remuneration is paid for soliciting noninstitutional inves-
                                      —— no commission or other remuneration is paid or given directly or indirectly for
                                      ible securities, rights, or warrants) is exempt as long as no commission or other form of
                                 ■■ Inaccurate statements regarding the amount of commissions, markup, or mark-
                                    down—There are circumstances where the amount of commission or markup may be
                                    charge a commission, and not informing him that all trades are done on a principal
                                                    where commissions may be higher than normal, a broker-dealer is not obligated
                                                    to disclose the amount of commission on any offer to sell before the transaction.
                                                    However, commissions are always required to be disclosed on the trade confirma-
                                                  Exchange. He also tells her that his firm will not be charging her any commission
                                                  start because the firm will not charge a commission, but failing to state that a sale
                                 ■■ induce transactions solely to generate commissions (churning), defined as transac-
                             Commission. As indicated previously, there are strict rules to be followed, the details of
                   2. 11. 9 UNREASONABLE COMMISSIONS OR MARK-UPS
                             to the current market price of the security or receiv­ing an unreasonable commission or
                   2. 11. 9. 1 Higher Than Normal Commissions
                                 dealer firms. A national public opinion poll commissioned by NASAA found that fees are
                                                         ■■ commissions,
                                                         ■■ advisory fees.
