                                 have custody of, or discretionary authority over, clients’ funds or securities to post surety
                                      political subdivision thereof shall establish capital, custody, financial responsibility,
                                 exchange or transfer of securities, appraisals, safekeeping, or custody of securities and other
                                     ■■ Safekeeping of funds/securities. This is the charge made for maintaining custody of
                                 ■■ maintaining custody of customer assets or exercising discretion;
                                    custody (also discussed shortly).
                                 ■■ Change in policy regarding custody of the customer funds and/or securities
                                     defined at 3.6.1). In addition, those who maintain custody of client funds and/or securities
                                     exercise discretionary authority over client accounts but do not maintain custody must
                                         Any investment adviser that has discretionary authority or custody of client funds or
                                             “If you have discretionary authority or custody of client funds or securities, or
                                          The Administrator may require an adviser who has custody of client funds or securi-
                                     net worth. Usually, the require­ment is higher for custody than for discretion. Typically,
                                     that for those taking custody is $35,000. If the adviser is using a surety bond instead, the
                                     does not maintain custody, but does accept prepayment of fees of more than $500, six or
                         EXAMPLE                         An investment adviser who maintains custody of customer funds and securi-
                                                      A. advisers maintaining custody of customer funds and/or securities must
                                                      D. advisers whose only custody of client funds is the ability to have
                                                    3.   XYZ Advisers has its principal office in State A. XYZ maintains custody of cus-
                                                         that take custody to maintain a minimum net worth of $65,000. Which of
                                                         B. XYZ can register in State B only if they cease taking custody.
                                                 ____     2.	A state-registered investment adviser maintaining custody of a cus-
                                               if a state-registered investment adviser has custody because it advises a pooled
                                      —— custody practices; and
                                              Advisers Act of 1940. It has 1,000 active clients. The firm maintains custody
                                              A. the 200 clients for whom it maintains custody
                                              B. the 200 clients for whom it maintains custody, as well as the 400 for
                                                 tains custody for even 1 client
                                                         C.   avoid maintaining control or custody of client funds and securities
             3. 11           RULES ON CUSTODY OF FUNDS AND SECURITIES
                                 custody of customer’s funds and securities went into effect. NASAA published its rules
                                 on custody later that same month. For the most part, the rules are identical. Our text will
                                 act, practice, or course of business within the meaning of the act for you to have custody
                                 ■■ You have a qualified custodian. A qualified custodian maintains those funds and secu-
                                 ■■ You give notice to your clients. If you open an account with a qualified custodian on
                                     must notify the client in writing of the qualified custodian’s name and address and the
                                      —— by qualified custodian: you have a reasonable basis for believing that the qualified
                                         you have custody of funds or securities, identifying the amount of funds and of each
                                         security of which you have custody at the end of the period and setting forth all
                              ■■ Under the NASAA model rule, in the absence of a rule prohibiting custody, the
                                 the investment adviser has or may have custody.
                                 fund), you may use the mutual fund’s transfer agent in lieu of a qualified custodian
                                 pany Act of 1940, and the custody rules adopted under that act.
                                  Definitions. For the purposes of this rule custody means holding, directly or indi-
                              Custody also includes:
                                  considers the receipt of a third-party check to constitute custody, while the Admin-
                                  parties is considered custody unless forwarded to the third party within three business
                                  A qualified custodian is a bank or savings association that has deposits insured by the
                                                  Most investment advisers do not take custody and, therefore, are unable to
                                 adviser who has custody because the adviser’s fees are directly deducted from client’s
                                     to deduct advisory fees from the accounts held with the qualified custodian.
                                      —— send the qualified custodian notice of the amount of the fee to be deducted from
                                                    sidered to have custody because of direct deduction of fees will receive a waiver
                                                    who uses a qualified custodian, they will be relieved of the obligation to file an
                         EXAMPLE                         Let’s look at three examples of custody given by the SEC.
                                                            clients’ funds and securities without having custody, although advisers
                                                    purposes of the custody definition. (Note, this is only true under NASAA
                                              ■■ An adviser has custody if it has the authority to withdraw funds or
                                                 from a client’s account has access to, and therefore has custody of, the
                                              ■■ An adviser has custody if it acts in any capacity that gives the adviser
