                                       A prospectus is any notice, circular, letter, or communication, written or broadcast
                                   prospectus does not include oral communications.
                                         A communication sent or delivered to any potential investor that is accompanied or
                                    solicit from the recipient of the communication a non-binding indication as to whether
                                    she might be interested in the security, if the communication contains substantially the
                                                        ■■ distribute sales literature or advertising material.
                                 although it would certainly be permitted to deliver it earlier. Additional sales literature
                                 may be used by the firm as long as the sales literature is preceded or accompanied by a pro-
                                 investors. In addition, no advertising may be done on behalf of the offering.
                                 or advertising under Section 506(b) in order to include non-accredited investors in the
                                 out may be by entering quotations in an interdealer communications system or otherwise.
                                 ■■ distributing or publishing (whether by means of a ticker tape, a communications net-
                                 ■■ any common carrier subject to the jurisdiction of the Federal Communications Com-
                            requirements to file advertising about the security with the Administrator. You will see
                            that registration with the Administrator and filing of advertising material is not required in
                                    investment advisers using the internet. A firm’s website, considered advertising, can be
                                    ■■ The communication clearly states that the person may only do business in this state if
                                         prominently disclosed within the communication,
                                         vices through the internet communication, and
                                      —— in disseminating information through the internet communication, the agent or
                                                      Included in the recordkeeping requirements are electronic communications,
                                 sions in your advertising file at the same time.
                                 ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS (EMAILS AND TEXT
                                 communications with customers. Use of social media websites for business purposes should
                                 be treated no differently from any other business-related electronic communication. Firms
                                 retain business communications made using social media sites. In this final segment of this
                                     Communication with customers has historically been through written correspon-
                                 radio advertising. In the 21st century, however, snail mail has given way to email, texting,
                                 of business communications. As the technology, communications platforms, and devices
                                 sions or in written communications with the public. Therefore, all existing FINRA rules
                                 to communications delivered electronically by any technology or device if the content is
                                 rounding electronic communications, even during their own time, if they are identifiable
                                 as a representative of the securities firm. Members of the marketing team might under-
                                 2. 4. 6. 2. 1 Review and Supervision of Electronic Communications
                                 tronic communications, email, and electronic correspondence may be used interchangeably
                                 and can include such forms of electronic communications as instant messaging and text
             2. 4. 7             ADVERTISING
                                     NASAA considers it to be an unethical business practice to use any advertising or
                                 the filing advertisement and sales literature unless the security or transaction is exempted
                   2. 4. 7. 1         Broker-Dealer Advertising
                                     Included in advertising is a firm’s website. Earlier in this session, we described the con-
                            exempt from the registration and advertising filing requirements under the USA), the
                            policy generally would view the following activities and communications as falling outside
                                 On the other hand, FINRA generally would view the following communications as
                            ■■ A member sends a customer-specific electronic communication (e.g., an email or pop-
                                 and are not an exhaustive list of communications that FINRA does or does not consider to
                                 be recommendations. They recognize that many other types of electronic communications
                                 tion of whether similar communications may or may not be viewed as recommendations.
                                 mine whether a communication is a recommendation, and they should take the necessary
                                     electronic forum (such as Twitter) comes within the definition of retail communication,
                                 communications, and whether the communication is a retail communication requiring
                                                 1.   Which of the following is NOT a factor when a communication to be distrib-
                                                      B. The nature of the audience to which the communication is intended to
                                                      D. Whether the communication is targeting existing customers or prospec-
                                                         be predominately used for business rather than personal communications?
                                 ■■ Copy of any prospectus, pamphlet, circular, or sales literature to be used in the offering
                                 tion and filing requirements of sales literature. A security, a transaction, or both, can be
                                 Even though these securities are exempt from registration and the filing of advertising and
                                 sales literature with the Administrator, they are still subject to the antifraud provisions.
                                                         advertising filing requirements under the USA?
