                                                                  Prohibitions on Unethical Business Practices 1
                                                   Appendix B: NASAA Model Rule on Unethical Business
                                 Unethical Business Practices
                                                     Unethical Business Practices
                           on Unethical Business Practices
                                              not only is a violation of federal law but also is considered an unethical business
                            ■■ recognize specific fraudulent activities, unethical practices prohibited practices, and vari-
                                     NASAA considers it to be an unethical business practice to use any advertising or
                                 unethical or prohibited, it is highly unlikely that you will have to know that for the exam.
                                 (a criminal offense) while engaging in a practice that is prohibited or unethical is gener-
                                 practices that are unethical, but let’s point out what the Uniform Securities Act considers
                                                  occur. Be able to apply the concepts of fraud and unethical behavior to scenarios
                   2. 11        DISHONEST OR UNETHICAL BUSINESS PRACTICES
                                  or unethical. Subsequently, they have issued several Model Rules that have expanded the
                                  You will need to know that it is a dishonest or unethical business practice if a broker-dealer
                                  it would be considered an unethical business practice for the firm to delay delivering it to
                                     rules regarding unfair business practices, especially with regard to seniors, may be included
                                 considered an unethical business practice. In other cases, a particular transaction may
                                      (A) Front running is the unethical business practice of a broker-dealer or one of its
                                 unethical business practice to do so.
                                 or Unethical Business Practices by Broker-Dealers and Agents in Connection with
                                 shall be deemed to have engaged in “dishonest or unethical practices in the securities busi-
                                ■■ is engaged in dishonest or unethical securities practices;
                             ■■ list the important ethical considerations and fiduciary responsibilities in providing invest-
                             ■■ understand the implications of the NASAA Model Rule on Unethical Business Practices of
                                 ■■ the establishment of standards of ethical business conduct for the industry.
                                 ment adviser, its business practices, the persons who own and control the firm, and the
             3. 9            INVESTMENT ADVISER CODE OF ETHICS
                                 the need for federal covered advisers to institute a code of ethics. This text will include
                                 ■■ a copy of the investment adviser’s code of ethics adopted and implemented pursuant
                                 ■■ a record of any violation of the code of ethics and of any action taken as a result of
                                 ■■ a record of all written acknowledgments, as required by the code of ethics rule, for
                                 ■■ each adviser’s code of ethics to require an adviser’s access persons (defined below) to
                                     chief compliance officer or other designated persons. The code of ethics must also
                                                          Long before this Code of Ethics was promulgated, NASAA had its version,
                                                     now titled the NASAA Model Rule on Unethical Business Practices of Investment
                                              This brochure provides information about the qualifications and business practices of
                                 business practices of [firm name]. If you have any questions about the contents of this
                      TEST TOPIC ALERT            Although use of the initials RIA or IAR is unethical, the exam may refer to
                              ate as a fraud or deceit upon the other person or engage in dishonest or unethical practices.
                                    may be considered unethical)
                                     For a complete listing of those practices considered unethical, please review Appendix
                                 B, which contains NASAA’s Model Rule on Unethical Business Practices of Investment
                              solicitor to register as an investment adviser                       Rule on Unethical Business Practices Of
                                                                                                   However, it would be unethical if the adviser
            B. committed an unethical sales practice because                 44. Under the Uniform Securities Act, broker-dealers
            C. committed an unethical business practice                          the position of the act?
                            to refrain from unfair business practices             III. findings of fact and conclusions of law
                investment adviser pledges his stock as                           on Unethical Business Practices of Investment
                                it is an unethical business practice to execute any transaction in a margin account without
                                                     he should always be sensitive to the appearance of unethical behavior.
                             NASAA Model Rule on Unethical Business Practices
                                                 has adopted a Model Rule on unethical business practices of
                             case, an investment adviser shall not engage in unethical business practices, including
                                 liability, besides being an unethical practice.
                                 be provided or fees to be charged are not ethical ways to either acquire or retain clients.
                             disclosure, incomplete disclosure, or deceptive practices shall be deemed an unethical
                       (equity and debt) a corporation has as a source for              cies on unethical business practices. Syn. overtrading.
                       horizon, and personal ethical choices (no tobacco or            sively by husbands and wives. See tenants in common.
                        as self-regulatory bodies to promote ethical conduct              See capital gain; capital loss; short-term capital loss.
        economic concepts                            providing investment advice 223       investment adviser code of ethics 192,
