                                      offering (IPO), a bid in a merger or acquisition, or the pricing in a tender offer. It is vital that
                                                4.   A company has filed for an IPO at $20 par value. The IPO is priced at $30 per share.
                                                        B. only permitted through the IPO filing.
                     known as IPO securities. The additional issue market is made up of new securities issues from
                                        Secondary Offerings
                                        A secondary offering is one in which one or more major stockholders in the corporation are
                                        stockholders rather than to the corporation. Typically, secondary offerings occur in situations
                                         New Issue (IPO) Market                        Additional Issue Market
           Secondary Offering            Company is going public; underwriting         Company is already public; underwriting
                                        A split offering is a combination of a primary and secondary offering. Some of the stock
                                        To deal with a situation like the one previously described, an issuer files a shelf registration
                                     A. a new publicly owned company is adding shares to the IPO.
                               4.   Which of the following has aspects of both a primary and secondary offering?
                                                        previously purchased. As such, those shares are being sold as a secondary offering.
                                                  Assume a 1 million-share IPO of common stock. Shares will be sold to the public for
                     Shelf Registration
                     information. Shelf registrations can be used for both equity and debt offerings.
                     Automatic Shelf Registration
                     automatic shelf registration, is also valid for three years, instead of only two.
                     the shelf registration and restart the three-year period where the securities may be sold.
                                        the same filings as other free writing prospectuses during an IPO of common or convertible
                      market, and in the same breath mention an IPO. But, consider that an IPO, once placed in
                      The same thought process applies to a company which has gone through the IPO offering
                      Prospectus Delivery Requirements for IPOs
                      Shelf Registration
                      For WKSIs, a shelf registration statement is effective immediately.
                                                           D. an intention to purchase the new issue at the IPO price.
                                                            C. An IPO, and then use the money to address the weakness
                                                            D. A secondary offering later
                                      IPO. LO 7.b
                                 5. B The issuer should file a shelf registration statement with the SEC, which, once
                       reforms, the only acceptable communication before the effective date for an IPO was a red
                       herring. For follow-on offerings, an issuer could take advantage of SEC rules 137–139.
                       a gun jumping violation. For follow-on offerings, SEC Rule 168 allows a reporting issuer to
                       IPOs, SEC Rule 169 allows a nonreporting issuer to publish regularly released factual business
                                 Except in the case of road shows for an IPO of equity securities, road show
                                 presentations that are recorded do not have to be filed with the SEC. An IPO issuer
                                        FINRA Rule 5130 only applies to a new issue, which is defined as any IPO of equity
                                        applies to IPOs of common stock.
                      Spinning is the practice of allocating highly sought after IPO shares (also known as hot stock)
                      an employee of the issuer, then IPO sales can be made to this account.
                                                     3.   Allocating highly sought after IPO shares to individuals who are in a position to direct
                                      issuer, then IPO sales can be made to this account. LO 7.g
                      sized firms was called for to ease the red tape associated with IPOs. Although Regulation A
                      was an alternative to a full IPO, it was never fully used—chiefly because it was limited to only
                                        Tier 2 permits a kind of mini-IPO allowing small, emerging companies to forego venture
                                        same fashion as S-1 registrations for IPOs, which we previously read about. Tier 2 issuers are
                                          in an IPO.
                                3.   If a small issuer was looking to raise $35 million for its IPO, as a recommendation,
                        In the IPO, the member, to avoid a clear conflict of interest, must engage an independent
                                        The requirement to use an independent qualified underwriter applies not only to IPOs of the
                                        member’s shares but also to IPOs where there is an affiliated relationship between issuer and
            IPO        initial public offering                      TO     tender offer
          to sell a security or a commodity; the price at which an          show used during an IPO that is not restricted from
             and Rule 147 offerings.                                         FINRA Rule 5130 Deals with IPOs of common stock.
             initial public offering (IPO) The first sale of common
             inside market The best (highest) bid price at which            IPO    See initial public offering.
             Nasdaq Global Select Market Companies The                         market. See also initial public offering (IPO).
          automatic shelf registration, 99                                    D                          Form 8-K, 146
             liquidity metrics, 34                           prospectus delivery requirements for           secondary offerings, 84
             long-term assets, 18                            prospectus delivery requirements for IPOs,     SEC Rule 10b-18, 191
          shelf registration, 99, 109             systemic (market) risk, 13                   underwriting commitments, 85
