                                      of profitability that omits the corporate capital structure of interest payments and tax
                               gauges the regular profitability before the effect of capital structure and taxes. EBITDA
                               gauges the regular cash flow from operations before the effect of capital structure and
                                      little long-term debt in its capital structure.
                                      the company’s capital structure that is debt.
                                      to the company’s peers, it may not be using debt financing to its full extent and may be
                                      EV/EBITDA has the advantage of not having capital structure or taxation as part of the
                                                         A. EV/EBITDA does not include capital structure or taxation as part of the
                     1. A EV/EBITDA has the advantage of not having capital structure or taxation as part of
                     The cost of debt financing is intuitively the easiest of all capital costs. When debt is issued,
                     computation of the cost of debt financing as well. The after-tax cost of debt is calculated as:
                                       Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC)
                                       capital (WACC). The WACC is simply the sum of the after-tax cost of each component of
                                              WACC = w d R d (1 − tax rate) + w p R p + w E R E
                                       When computing the WACC, it is easiest to compute it using a table like the following.
          Figure 4.2: WACC for XYZ Corp. (marginal tax rate of 35%)
                                                  WACC. Always scan the question to see if the cost of debt given is pretax or after-tax.
                                                  A company’s WACC can be used as the discount rate when computing present value,
                                      A. computing the weighted average cost of capital (WACC).
                                    computing the WACC. The WACC is simply the sum of the after-tax cost of each
            LTM        last twelve months                           WACC      weighted average cost of capital
           WACC                          wdRd (1− tax rate) + wpRp + wERE
             own trades as well as those of introducing (correspondent)         changes in capital structure such as a stock split.
                                                  Title 11 of the U.S. Code, 196, 200          weighted average cost of capital (WACC), 70
