                                     SEC Uniform Net Capital
                                     Net Capital ■ Subordination
                              2.12   Financial Reporting 105                 Person ■ Interested
                                      ■■ financial projections, including a trial balance, balance sheet, and net capital computa-
                                      ■■ ability to maintain adequate net capital to support intended business operations on a con-
                                       the member firm is in compliance with net capital requirements and to notify regulators when
                                       sible for the maintenance of firm books and records, safekeeping, and the processing and clear-
                                ■■ Persons involved in the preparation of the firm’s original books and records (blotters)
                                example, those people who are granted access to the books and records of the firm, such as an
                                     Making certain that those who work on the firm’s books and records carry no history of
                                han­dling or processing securities, money, or original books and records or access to those who
                                permitted access to the bank’s premises in order to inspect the books and records.
                                   the firm), the member must record the transaction on its books and records. Practically speak-
                               2. 8. 8. 1. 5 ETF Net Capital Haircuts
                               ally this will entail net capital violations), SIPC will be notified immediately. If SIPC deter-
                  2. 11. 1 SEC UNIFORM NET CAPITAL RULE 15C3-1
                                         The uniform net capital rule is the SEC’s primary means of assuring that registered securi-
                                    public. In theory, net capital is the amount of money left over after every liability of a broker-
                                    tain higher levels of net capital than introducing firms. They also are responsible for segregat-
                                    an introducing firm, their net capital requirement is higher. Let’s review the varying amounts
                                    of net capital required of various types of member firms.
                                clearly has a line of business that is inherently risky. The minimum net capital requirement for
                                have that amount of net capital since they are deemed to carry customer funds.
                                carrying more than $20 million in net capital must document their procedures for managing
                                the clearing firm acts as the introducing firm’s back office. The minimum net capital require-
                                                          If a firm is, for whatever reason, unable to make a net capital computation
                                                      necessary to demonstrate that it is in compliance with the net capital rule, then it
                                       firms’ investment accounts. For net capital purposes, the concept of a dealer is any member
                                           The minimum net capital requirement for a dealer is $100,000. This capital requirement
                                                      account, its minimum net capital requirement is $100,000, not $5,000 or $50,000.
                                       products, such as unit trusts or variable annuities, the minimum net capital requirement is
                                           For firms registered as market makers, the minimum net capital requirement is a function
                                       ■■ bid price of $5 or less—$1,000 in net capital per security; and
                                       ■■ bid price of more than $5—$2,500 in net capital per security.
                                                      mum net capital requirement of $100,000.
                                                           Also note that the minimum net capital requirement for firms acting as prime
                                               —— 1. Minimum net capital required for an introducing firm that effects more
                                               —— 2. Minimum net capital required for a firm that deals exclusively in invest-
                                               —— 3. Minimum net capital required for an introducing broker-dealer that cannot
                                               ——     4. Minimum net capital required for a firm that carries customer accounts
                                               —— 5. Minimum net capital required for a market maker that makes a market in
                                               —— 6. Minimum net capital required for a market maker that makes a market in
                                               —— 7. Minimum net capital required for an introducing broker-dealer that
                  2. 11. 7 BASIC NET CAPITAL COMPUTATION METHOD
                                   Net capital represents the liquid net worth of a firm as computed using generally accepted
                                   Net capital excludes the value of a member’s illiquid assets.
                                                            Net capital = liquid assets – total liabilities
                               and all liabilities paid off is net capital.
                               in the net capital computation. Subordinated loans are covered in greater detail later in the
                                      At this point, the net capital computation is as follows:
