                              2.4   Dispute Resolution 62                   Securities ■ Other FRB
                                    Uniform Code of Arbitration             Rules ■ Pattern Day
                                    Arbitration ■ Awards ■           2.9    Securities Investor Protection
                               ■■ dispute resolutions;
                                ■■ are subject to a customer complaint alleging theft, misappropriation of customer assets, or
                                   arbitration settled for an amount in excess of $15,000 ($25,000 if the defendant/respon-
                                   assessments (including arbitration awards) on a timely basis, its membership can be revoked
                                                  business days if one of its associated persons is subject to a customer complaint
                                arbitration clause and cautions the associated person (AP) to read the clause before signing.
                                unless the parties agree to it. See Unit 2 for more information on dispute resolution.
                                       the person’s failure to comply with an arbitration award.
                   27. The Code of Arbitration would handle                        30. You have hired a Tier I individual. This will in-
                              employer has no further obligation once it                        dispute and arbitration.
                               ■■ Reporting requirements for customer complaints
                                        ets, confirmations, etc.), including customer complaints; and
                                cable to the member’s business, a tabulation of the reports pertaining to customer complaints
                                   including information related to customer complaints, internal investigations, and the
                                ■■ Customer Complaints—A member firm’s supervisory procedures must include procedures
                                   plaints. Although oral customer complaints are not touched per se by the rules, FINRA
       2. 2. 8                  CUSTOMER COMPLAINTS
                                    If it cannot be resolved, it must be referred to the director of arbitration of FINRA (dis-
                                    FINRA Rule 4513 states that copies of all customer complaints be maintained in a file
                            !                              Copies of customer complaints, as well as the quarterly filings, must be retained
       2. 4             DISPUTE RESOLUTION
                                    The Code of Arbitration was established to resolve principally money disputes. When
                                Arbitration is one method of resolving complaints.
       2. 4. 1                  UNIFORM CODE OF ARBITRATION (UCA)
                                    Arbitration is an alternative to going to court to resolve disputes. Arbitration panels com-
                                lenged in court. Arbitration or mediation is mandatory in controversies involving a(n):
                                           Over time, customer complaints became subject to mandatory arbitration. In the absence
                                       of a signed arbitration agreement, a customer can still force a member to arbitration, but a
                                       member cannot force a customer to arbitration. Today, virtually all on-boarding forms contain
                                       a predispute arbitration agreement that must be signed by customers before account opening.
                                       Thus, unresolved customer disputes must be heard under the Code of Arbitration.
                                                           If a customer requests a copy of the predispute arbitration agreement signed on
                                           Class action claims are not subject to arbitration. In addition, claims alleging employment
                                           The advantages of arbitration over suits in state or federal courts are that time and money
                                       with the director of arbitration of FINRA. The Statement of Claim must describe in detail the
                                the 10% test might still realize significant revenue from their arbitration work, has added a
                                past two years from arbitration work cannot function as public arbitrators. The definitions of
                                an all-public arbitration panel.
                                an all-public arbitration panel by striking all of the arbitrators on the nonpublic list. In dis-
                                than $100,000, whether industry disputes or customer disputes, the director of arbitration
                                FINRA in its rules, and served on at least three arbitrations.
                                    In an arbitration between member firms, the panel composition is:
                                    The so-called mid-case referral rule allows an arbitration panel in unusual cases to alert
       2. 4. 5                  SIMPLIFIED ARBITRATION
                                fied arbitration. For disputes with customers, a single, chair-qualified, public arbitrator reviews
                                       ■■ submit a dispute for arbitration;
                                           Action by members requiring associated persons to waive the arbitration of disputes is also
