                                        Suitability Obligations (FINRA
                                        Rule 2111) ■ Suitability
                                        Suitability Issues ■ Regulation
                                    Suitability of customer recommendations must rank high on a supervisor’s list of concerns.
                                       that has a pattern of “looking the other way” when profitable but unauthorized trading is
                                ■■ anti-fraud and sales practices;
                                    The key is suitability. Implicit in all dealings with customers is the responsibility for fair
                                the suitability of these recommendations. In making a recommendation to liquidate an exist-
                                       With respect to institutional customers, a member can fulfill its suitability obligations by
                                   ble of independently evaluating risk, the member’s suitability obligation is fulfilled. In other
                                rule changes relating to the business and sales practices of member firms. It also is responsible
                                    Under FINRA rules, all DPPs must have clearly stated standards of suitability in the pro-
                                    The member, after making a suitability determination, must maintain in its file documents
                                that describe the basis on which the determination of suitability was made. In addition, no
                                       ■■ perform a reasonable-basis suitability analysis;
                                       ■■ perform a customer-specific suitability analysis for recommended transactions;
                                            A reasonable-basis suitability analysis is necessary to ensure that an investment is suitable
                                       for some investors, as opposed to a customer-specific suitability determination, which is under-
                                       based accounts who trade infrequently is known as reverse churning.
                                  act does not regulate ethical sales practices, which are covered by the Securities Exchange Act
             2. 23. 1. 2 Suitability
                                2. 23. 1. 2. 1 Specific Suitability Requirements
                                    Although there are general suitability rules that always apply, this rule specifies that, in
                                deferred variable annuity, the exchange also is consistent with the suitability determination
                                ■■ Suitability requirements
                                     The Know Your Customer rule, FINRA Rule 2090, along with Rule 2111 (suitability)
                                that the information obtained by the firm, particularly suitability information, is correct. The
                                or churning (discussed later in this Unit).
                  3. 1. 10 COMPONENTS OF SUITABILITY OBLIGATIONS
                                ■■ Reasonable-basis suitability
                                ■■ Customer-specific suitability
                                ■■ Quantitative suitability
                                a security or strategy violates the suitability rule.
                                     Quantitative suitability requires a member or AP who has control over a customer account
                                a basis for a finding that a member or AP has violated the quantitative suitability obligation.
                  3. 1. 11 SUITABILITY INFORMATION
                                    The registered representative must attempt to collect suitability information, which is the
       3. 1. 12 UNIQUE SUITABILITY ISSUES
                                sure, a written suitability determination, or both.
                                Facebook or MySpace, it triggers FINRA Rule 2111 regarding suitability.
                                a recommendation, and suitability rules are not triggered.
                                suitability concerns. Compliance officers must consider many factors when developing proce-
                                ■■ Excessive trading activity. Called churning, excessive trading is difficult to quantify. It
                                    vehicles, and short-term trading raises questions of churning and suitability.
                                                    and churning in customer accounts. Specifically, FINRA found that the member firm
                        3. 4. 9. 1   Suitability Issues and Communications
                                 such as Facebook, LinkedIn, or MySpace, it triggers FINRA Rule 2111 regarding suitability.
                                 recommendation, and suitability rules are not triggered.
                                thereby triggering suitability concerns. Compliance officers must consider many factors when
                                             As mentioned in Unit 2, suitability is more than just making appropriate recommenda-
