                                    Compliance (FINRA Rule 3130)            Coverage ■ Advertising SIPC
                                                                          3.4   Communications with
                                                                                Communications ■ Retail
                                                                                Communications ■ Filing
                                    Communications ■ SEC              5.11   Tender Offers and Corporate
                               trading, market making, investment banking, sales, and approval of communications with the
                                      ■■ communications and operational systems;
                                communication with FINRA. The “ER” does not need to be the principal executive officer.
                                viduals who prepare communications that analyze equity securities or individual companies/
                                       approve retail communication, including communications regarding municipal securities.
                                market making, nor can this person approve retail communications. A small non-OSJ branch
                                                     communications
                                ■■ reviewing transactions and communications; and
                                   ■■ Final approval of retail communications, except for an office that solely conducts final
                                           communications; and all orders must be entered through the designated branch or through
                                                       business) is not a branch as long as no advertising or signage indicates that securities
                                       ■■ Risk-Based Reviews of Correspondence and Communication—Similarly, with regard to
                                           communication relating to a firm’s investment banking and securities, business firms may
                                           use risk-based principles for its review of communications.
                                   ■■ Alternate communications between the firm and its customers
                                   ■■ Alternate communications between the firm and its employees
                                   ■■ Communications with regulators
       2. 9. 7                  ADVERTISING SIPC MEMBERSHIP
                                membership, and all advertising by a member must include the SIPC logo or a statement of
                                        example of a firm-specific issue is instant messaging. If a firm uses that form of communication,
                                ■■ Communications with the public
                    EXAMPLE                            12b-1 charges include advertising, the printing and mailing of prospectuses to
                                        for computer hardware, telecommunications lines, office equipment, reimbursement of travel
                                   Social media, and electronic communications guidelines
                                ■■ Differences among research, retail, and institutional communications and correspondence
                                     Here are a few examples. A web-based communication that would fall outside the definition
                                     An example of communication that falls within the definition of a recommendation under
                                communications that recommend a specific investment product and any link to a recommenda-
                                prohibiting communications that recommend specific investments unless the communication
       3. 4             COMMUNICATIONS WITH THE PUBLIC
                                    Communications with the public takes many forms, such as brochures, emails, weblogs,
                                speaking engagements, and written reports. Supervision of communications is no different
                                member must establish, maintain, and enforce WSPs to supervise communications, and since
                                    In keeping with FINRA Rule 2210, there are three principal categories of communications:
                                ■■ Retail communications
                                ■■ Institutional communications
                                    “Retail communication” means any written (including electronic) communication that is
                                    “Correspondence” means any written (including electronic) communication that is dis-
                                            “Institutional communication” means any written (including electronic) communication
                                        member’s internal communications (e.g., internal memos).
                                            FINRA mandates that no member may treat a communication as having been distributed
                                        to an institutional investor if the member firm has reason to believe that the communication
                                        tion and training of their representatives as to FINRA rules on public communications and
                                        the audience. Members and their APs must know their audience and provide communication
                                    Communications with the public may not predict performance or imply that an excellent
