                                                  branch offices, and representatives, which account for nine questions
                               (Uniform Branch Office Registration Form) is used specifically for branch office registration.
                               branch offices in the appropriate jurisdictions and/or with SROs. Access to the Form is
                               ■■ OSJ, non-OSJ, branch telephone number
                                   A branch office may be a private residence. FINRA policy is that private residences regis-
                               tered as branch offices have their addresses disclosed through BrokerCheck®.
                                                 Supervisory Jurisdiction. (See Unit 2 for more about OSJs.) The rules do not require the
                                                 “person-in-charge” to be a principal at all non-OSJ branch offices. A properly qualified
                                                 supervision of an OSJ or supervising branch. Note that FINRA must be notified within
                                   branch offices registered and the number of representatives and principals registered with the
                                market making, nor can this person approve retail communications. A small non-OSJ branch
            C. marital status                                                        A. Small branch office managers
            D. level of eduction                                                     B. Managers of an OSJs
          8.    B. FINRA rules require that managers of OSJs                            based training session within 120 days of
                   Persons-in-charge at a non-OSJ branch are                            every 3 years thereafter.
                                  at the Office of Supervisory Jurisdiction (OSJ), branch offices, and associated office loca-
                        2. 1. 1. 1     Office of Supervisory Jurisdiction (OSJ)
                                      Each member must identify to FINRA which of its offices have been designated as OSJs.
                                   An OSJ is any office at which one or more of the following functions take place:
                                   ■■ Supervision of activities of persons at one or more of the member’s branch offices
                                       FINRA requires members to identify other offices as OSJs, if needed, to properly supervise
                                   ■■ whether the location is geographically distant from another OSJ of the firm;
                                        The significance of an OSJ is that the office is responsible for the activities of registered
                                        The responsibilities of an OSJ, which must be managed by at least one resident general
                                   ■■ periodically inspect the branch offices beneath it.
                               EXAMPLE                  If a FINRA or an in-house auditor were to examine records maintained at an OSJ,
                                                   activities of all of the non-OSJ branch office locations reporting to that OSJ.
                                   must be kept in each OSJ and at each location where supervisory activities are conducted.
                                customer account activity conducted by producing branch office managers, sales managers,
                                    FINRA Rule 3110 requires, among other things, that OSJs and the lines of business in
                                are exempt from definition of an OSJ.
                                                      will not be designated to be the on-site principal for more than one OSJ. However,
                                           A branch office is defined as any location “held out” to be where one or more associated
                                           dled at the location; the associated person must be assigned to a designated branch office,
                                           deemed “holding out” as a branch office under Rule 3110
                                                       nonbranch locations is considered to be a branch office—in this case, a supervising
                                                       of the branch office or OSJ responsible for supervising this person.
                            !                              FINRA rules require that there be at least one principal at an OSJ. FINRA rules do
                                                      not require principals to be at branch offices. A properly qualified registered represen-
                                                      sion of an OSJ.
                                       ■■ Supervision of Multiple OSJs by a Single Principal—FINRA member firms are required
                                           and routine physical presence, at each office of supervisory jurisdiction (OSJ). The rules
                                           principal to supervise more than one OSJ. The presumption may be overcome if a member
                                           principal and the geographic proximity of each OSJ the principal will be supervising.
                                       ■■ Internal Office Inspections—Inspections of non-branch offices are required, and there is
                                           a presumption that a non-branch office will be inspected at least every three years. Addi-
                                at the supervising OSJ. However, the rule does permit a member to keep a complaint file at
                                OSJ. Each complaint in the file must be accompanied by a statement of its resolution and be
                                                      did not deliver the red herrings. When asked about it by the branch office manager,
                                                      prospectuses. The branch office manager (BOM) suggested that the representative
