                                                                          3.4   Communications with
                                                                                Communications ■ Retail
                                                                                Communications ■ Filing
                                    Communications ■ SEC              5.11   Tender Offers and Corporate
                               trading, market making, investment banking, sales, and approval of communications with the
                                    violated FINRA or MSRB rules, federal securities law, or state regulations;
                                                    the SEC. Other regulatory bodies, such as the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board
                                                    (MSRB) provide registration and operating rules, as well as reporting transparency ser-
                                                    vices for those brokers and dealers who operate in the municipal fixed income space.
                                      ■■ communications and operational systems;
                                communication with FINRA. The “ER” does not need to be the principal executive officer.
                                       an aspiring Municipal Securities Principal to first pass the Series 52. Those who passed the
                                viduals who prepare communications that analyze equity securities or individual companies/
                                       approve retail communication, including communications regarding municipal securities.
             1. 1. 3. 6              Municipal Fund Securities Principal—Series 51
                                    Series 51 allows the holder to supervise activities in municipal fund securities, such as
                                pal is not permitted to supervise any other type of municipal security.
             1. 1. 3. 7              Municipal Principal—Series 53
                                  Series 53 allows the holder to supervise the purchase and sale of municipal securities. All
                                members engaged in municipal business must have at least one municipal principal.
                                market making, nor can this person approve retail communications. A small non-OSJ branch
                               ■■ Persons who effect transactions in municipal securities. For example, a bank may be
                                  involved in the underwriting of municipal bonds, and although the bank need not register
                                  lines of business beyond municipal securities, such as corporate debt, that new activity
                                                     communications
                                                     —— 7. Allows the holder to supervise transactions in municipal securities; all
                                                     member firms engaged in municipal business must have at least one
                                                     ——      8. Allows the holder to supervise transactions in municipal fund securities
                                                     —— 10. Allows the holder to act as a municipal securities representative and is an
                                                     acceptable prerequisite test for the Municipal Securities Principal Exam
                                questionnaire signed by a municipal or general securities principal containing the following
                                the person’s record, and reputation. A municipal broker-dealer that has been contacted by a
                                                          FP – Municipal Fund (S51)
                                 openings, change of address).                                      of FINRA, the Municipal Securities
                                such as a New York City municipal bond.
                                ■■ reviewing transactions and communications; and
                                                ■■ Tax-free income                     ■■ Municipal bonds or municipal
                                   ■■ Final approval of retail communications, except for an office that solely conducts final
                                                      a municipal principal must be designated to supervise the member’s municipal busi-
                                           communications; and all orders must be entered through the designated branch or through
                                       ■■ Risk-Based Reviews of Correspondence and Communication—Similarly, with regard to
                                           communication relating to a firm’s investment banking and securities, business firms may
                                           use risk-based principles for its review of communications.
                                   communicate their complaints in writing. Firms that fail to address any customer com-
                                ber, not the bank, is providing the broker-dealer’s services. Furthermore, retail communica-
                                       ernment or municipal bonds.
                                           The Code of Procedure was created to address alleged violations of FINRA rules, MSRB
                                       (including municipal and government debt and commodity futures) for a total of 20 years
                                   ■■ Alternate communications between the firm and its customers
                                   ■■ Alternate communications between the firm and its employees
