                                    Advisers ■ DVP                          Traders ■ Misappropriation
                               ■■ take appropriate steps to ensure compliance with these rules;
                                                    own proprietary trading account are acting as dealers. In most cases, broker-dealers
                                                    register with the SEC, the states where they operate, and the appropriate designated
                                      ■■ proposed recordkeeping system;
                                          cants, except for sole proprietorships, must have at least two officers qualified to become
                                                           All applicants, except for sole proprietorships, must have at least two officers
                                                      register and qualify as appropriate principals; for a general securities firm, that means
                               branch offices in the appropriate jurisdictions and/or with SROs. Access to the Form is
                                                 “person-in-charge” to be a principal at all non-OSJ branch offices. A properly qualified
                                                         FINRA (or appropriate SRO) is required by the SEC to conduct an inspection of
                               MC-400. FINRA then may propose to admit or allow a person to continue as an associate
                                    Another option for continued employment in the securities industry is available for statu-
                                ■■ are subject to a customer complaint alleging theft, misappropriation of customer assets, or
                               EXAMPLE                 If an applicant does not have a registered options principal, it will be prohibited
                                                  from engaging in any options business. Likewise, if the applicant’s level of capital is
                                     Another important part of a principal’s job is to ensure that people are not only properly
                                registered but also qualified by passing the appropriate FINRA-administered examination. As
                                       appropriate insurance license. To solicit or trade in stocks through NASDAQ or on the NYSE
                                vertible debt securities. It is required for OTC market makers, agency, and OTC proprietary
                                include sole proprietors, officers, partners, and managers of offices of supervisory jurisdiction.
                        1. 1. 3. 2         Options Principal—Series 4
                                           Series 4 qualifies an individual to supervise the member’s options business. All mem-
                                       bers engaged in options transactions for customers must have at least one qualified, registered
                                       options principal to make sure those customers benefit from strong supervisory procedures,
                                       which, among other things, provides for the distribution of the Options Disclosure Document
                                       (ODD) published by the Options Clearing Corporation (OCC).
                        QUICK QUIZ 1.B                Match the following registrations with the appropriate descriptions.
                                                     —— 4. Allows the holder to supervise the member’s options business; all mem-
                                                     bers engaged in option transactions must have at least one
                                person has passed the appropriate qualification exams. This record also must be maintained for
                                    Registration is not effective until the applicant passes the appropriate qualification
                                the reason for termination and to provide an explanation, where appropriate.
                                tion occurs after two years, the individual must requalify by passing the appropriate exam(s).
                               appropriate to either the registered representative or principal status of the person. The repre-
                                a new application (Form U-4) and passing the appropriate examination. As a supervisor, note
                                                          MM – Market Maker Authorized Trader-Options (S56)
                appropriate qualification examination                                D. 5 years
            C. be registered with the appropriate regulatory
            dropped when the guilty party admitted to the                           A. 1
            A. ignore it, because the charges were dropped                          D. 5
                              dropped, it is only necessary to file an                30. C. Tier I requires a separate annual review
                         4. T.                                                                      option exchanges, and registered clearing
                               ■■ Proper handling and resolution of disputes
                               ■■ Products and their risk characteristics and appropriate accounts
                               ■■ Appropriate testing of the firm’s procedures and controls, including the CEO Certification
                               ■■ Requirement that all activities and systems have proper controls
                                ■■ designate appropriately registered principals with the authority to enforce the firm’s writ-
                                ■■ ensuring all representatives are qualified by the proper examination and receive their con-
                                ■■ Improper use of testimonials in ads
